React 觀念
Now that we have created
a few different components,
let's quickly talk about different component categories
that naturally emerge in most React code bases.
So most of your components will naturally fall
into one of three categories,
stateless or presentational components,
stateful components or structural components.
And I say naturally
because we shouldn't force our components
into one of these categories.
Now, these are all still normal React components
in our code, so just like the ones
that we have been writing.
But we can categorize them in this way
when we think about components.
There are also other categories that could be used,
but I think that these make the most sense.
So starting with stateless or presentational components,
as the name says, these don't have any state.
Usually, they are components that receive some props
and then they simply present that data
or even some other content,
and therefore the name presentational.
Many times these are quite small components,
such as the logo, num results
and movie components in our current app.
Next, stateful components are simply components
that do have state.
Now, just because these components have state,
that doesn't mean that they can't be highly reusable.
For example, the search component that we built
does have state and we could reuse this input
as many times as we wanted throughout the app.
Now finally, you can think of structural components
as pages, layouts, or screens of the application,
which are oftentimes the result
of composing many smaller components together.
And more about composition later in this section.
So these structural components can be large
and non reusable components, but they don't have to.
Structural components are sometimes quite small too.
What matters is that they are responsible
for providing some sort of structure
to applications such as pages or layouts.
Therefore, these components might not be present
in really small apps,
but you will definitely have a few structural components
as your app grows bigger and bigger.