React 觀念
When we build a reusable component,

like the one we are currently building,

we should carefully think

about what props the component needs.

So let's now shortly look at how to think about props.

So, first of all, as we start working on our components,

we should get into the mindset

that any component is always created by someone,

and always consumed by someone.

Now, when you're working on your own,

the component creator and consumer,

is, of course, the same person.

But if you're on a team,

those might very well be different developers.

But in any case, it's always a good idea

to think in terms of there being a creator

and a consumer of a component,

so, different entities, even if it's just yourself.

So, basically, the creator

is the person building a component,

and defining what props the component can accept.

While the consumer uses the component

somewhere in the application,

by specifying values for the props.

Now, the reason for the separation

between creator and consumer,

even if you're just working on your own,

is that if we have this mindset,

we can think of the component's props

as the public API of the component.

So, as a component creator,

when we choose what props

the consumer is allowed to pass in,

we are essentially defining

the public interface of our component.

And, at the same time, we are choosing

how much complexity of the component

we want to expose to the consumer of the API.

Because, in the end,

a component is basically just an abstraction.

So, we are encapsulating a part of the UI

and the associated logic into a component,

and allow consumers

to interact with that component via props.

And that's it.

That's basically what creating a new component is.

But, anyway, when we decide about

what props to allow in a component,

we need to find a good balance on how strict we want to be.

So about how many props we want to enable for configuration.

For example, let's say

we're building a weather component,

so a component that simply displays the weather.

We could make it extremely simple,

for example, only allowing one prop.

So, for the location

for which the consumer wants the weather.

Now, this might be perfectly fine,

but it might also make the component not flexible enough,

or maybe even straight out, useless for the consumer.

On the other hand,

we could allow props for the URL of the weather data,

the number of days,

whether it should be daily or hourly,

how many days, which temperature to unit,

what data should be displayed, and so on.

I could think of really 20 other props here.

But the point is that exposing so many props,

might make the component

way too hard to use for the consumer,

because we're exposing too much complexity.

And speaking of complexity,

you'll end up with very complex code,

if you want to allow so many props.

So, when deciding on the right API for your components,

try to strike the right balance

between too little and too many props,

and a balance that works well,

for both the creator,

and the consumer of the component,

based on the project's needs.

Now, if for some reason

you really need to expose so many props,

make sure to at least provide

some good default values for many of them.

Okay, and as always, this will come to you with practice,

but I thought that it was quite important

to get you into this mindset

of distinguishing between component creators and consumers.

And so with that, we're ready to put this into practice.