React 觀念
Let's start this section
with the conceptual difference between React components,
Component instances, and React elements.
Knowing about this difference will hopefully
make it a bit more clear what actually happens
with your components as you use them.
And also this is a pretty common interview question.
And so this topic is definitely worth learning about.
And let's begin by taking another look at components.
So components are what we write
in order to describe a piece of the user interface.
And the component is just a regular JavaScript function,
but it's a function that returns React elements.
So it returns an element tree.
And we usually write these elements using the JSX syntax.
Now a component is a generic description of the UI.
So we can essentially think of a component as a blueprint
or a template, and it's out of this one blueprint
or template that React then creates one
or multiple component instances.
Now, React does this each time that we use the component
somewhere in our code.
For example, the tap component that we saw
in the last slide is used, so it is included three times
in this app component.
And so therefore, three instances of tap are placed
in a component tree.
So in our actual application.
Behind the scenes, this happens
because React will call the tap function three times.
So one time for each instance.
So we can say that an instance is like the actual
physical manifestation of a component living
in our componentry.
While the component itself is really just a function
that we wrote before being called.
And actually, it's each instance
that holds its own state and props
and that also has its own life cycle.
So basically, a component instance can be born,
it can live for some time until it will eventually die.
So it's a bit like a living organism really.
Now in practice, we many times just use the terms component
and component instance interchangeably.
For example, we just say component life cycle
and not component instance life cycle.
And we also say that a UI is made up of components,
not of component instances,
even though instances
would technically be more accurate.
Okay, so just keep that in mind in the future
when you read documentation
or some stack overflow post or something like that.
But anyway, as React executes the code
in each of these instances,
each of them will return one or more React elements.
So as we learned when we first talked
about JSX behind the scenes, JSX will actually get converted
to multiple React.createElement function calls.
Then as React calls these create element functions
the result will be a React element.
So a React element is basically the result
of using a component in our code.
It's simply a big immutable JavaScript object
that React keeps in memory.
And we will take a look at this later in our account.
But what is this object actually?
Well, a React element basically contains all the information
that is necessary in order to create DOM elements
for the current component instance.
And so it's this React element that will eventually
be converted to actual DOM elements,
and then painted onto the screen by the browser.
So based on all this, the DOM elements are the actual, final
and visual representation
of the components instance in the browser.
And again, it's not React elements
that are rendered to the DOM.
React elements just live
inside the React app and have nothing to do with the DOM.
They are simply converted to DOM elements
when they are painted on the screen in this final step.
Okay, so this is the journey
from writing a single component to using it multiple times
in our code as a blueprint all the way
until it's converted to a React element,
and then rendered as HTML elements into the DOM.
So I hope you found this interesting and useful,
and if you did, then let's move on to the next video,
and take a look at all this in code.