So as promised, let's now shortly look
at component instances and React elements in our code.
So what I want to do in this lecture is just a couple
of quick experiments to show you some interesting things.
So first off, we can actually look
at a component instance simply
by using the component and logging it to the console.
So let's try that out.
So actually right out here we can write JSX like this.
So, let's use the different component
or the different content component
because this one doesn't have any state.
And all right, and if we run this
then we should see something in the console.
And indeed, there it is.
So as soon as React sees this right here,
it will internally call the different content function
and will then return this React element.
So just like we learned in the previous video.
So let's take a quick look at this
and while this is not really interesting, we can see
that the type here is of different content.
And so that's exactly the name of the component right here.
We can also see that we didn't pass in any props
but which we actually could.
So let's just do test equals 23.
and so then we should see that right here.
So now in the second one, and indeed there it is.
So again, this is what React internally use
to then later create our dumb elements.
Now if you're wondering what this weird dollar dollar type
of thing here is, well this is simply a security feature
that React has implemented in order to protect us
against cross-site scripting attacks.
So, notice how this is a symbol and symbols are one
of the JavaScript primitives, which cannot be transmitted
via JSON, or in other words, this means that a symbol
like this cannot come from an API call.
So if some hacker would try to send us a fake React
element from that API, then React would not see
this type of as a symbol.
Again, because symbols cannot be transmitted via JSON.
And so then React would not include that fake React element
into the dumb so protecting us against that kind of attack.
All right, but anyway, let's come back here
and try something else.
So, if React calls are component internally
when it renders them, so just as it did here in this
previous line, then maybe you have wondered,
why don't we just call components directly?
So why should we write it like this when
we could also write different content like this?
So, basically calling the function ourselves.
Well, there is really nothing stopping us from doing so.
So if we save this, then we actually get a result as well.
Let's just reload here so that we only get
these two outputs.
So one output from here and one from here.
So you see that even here in this case,
we still got a React element like this.
However, it is a very different one.
So this one no longer has the type of different content
and instead it is a diff which is basically
just the content of that component.
So this diff here is now the type of this React element
and we can also see that because the props include
the class name of "tab-content".
So what this means is that right now, React does
no longer see this as a component instance,
and instead it just sees the raw React element,
which is really not what we want.
So, when we write, or actually when we use a component,
we want React to see the component instance
and not the raw output element like this one.
So never do this, what we did right here,
and let's actually demonstrate this one more time,
but now inside the component here.
So after all this, let's enter JavaScript mode here
and then let's just call or actually tab content.
This time, let's call tab content
and we can pass in props just like this.
So we pass in an object and then item,
and then let's say content at zero.
And well, we got some errors here, but let's try to reload.
And now this somehow works.
So you see that actually
we got a second tab content rendered down here.
So, it looks like this works, right?
Well, not so fast.
Let's check out our component tree here again.
We need some more space.
And so now you see that we still only have one
tab content here in our component tree.
And so this happened exactly because of what I explained
before, which is that when we call a component directly
like this, then React no longer sees it
as a component instance.
Now we can also see that the state
that this component manages is actually now
inside the parent state or the parent component.
So, if we check out the tabbed component here,
you see that it has the normal state that it had before
which is this active tab
but it also has some other hooks here which come
from tab content.
So these two are the two hooks that are inside
this component, but they don't really belong here.
So we actually want them to be inside tab content
and not inside, well not here inside the tabbed component.
So what this means again, is that this is here
not really a component because it cannot even manage
its own state at this point.
So, for all these reasons, you should never ever do
what we just did here because this will create
multiple problems such as violating the rules of hooks
that we will talk about later.
So instead, as you already know,
always render it inside the JSX.
So just like this.
And so here we just use the component.
So, basically this blueprint like we have always been doing.
And so then React calls the component
and actually recognizes this as a component instance.
Alright, so let's reload here again
and then we are back to normal.
Alright, and here we can see one of those examples
that we talked about in the previous lecture.
So, we wrote one tab component here.
So this is like the blueprint
but then we have four component instances,
each with its own state and its own props.