React 觀念
Welcome back to part three
of How Rendering Works Behind the Scenes.
So we just finished learning about the render phase
which resulted in a list of DOM updates
and this list will now get used in the commit phase.
Now, technically speaking, the current work in progress
fiber tree also goes into this commit phase,
but let's keep it simple here.
So these are more conceptual diagrams
so that we can understand what is happening,
not a 100% accurate description
of the algorithms inside React, all right?
But anyway, as you know by now,
the commit phase is where React finally writes to the DOM,
so it inserts, deletes and updates DOM elements.
You'll sometimes also read
that React flushes updates to the DOM in this phase.
So basically, React goes through the effects list
that was created during rendering,
and applies them one by one to the actual DOM elements
that were in the already existing DOM tree.
Now riding to the DOM happens all in one go.
So we say that the commit phase is synchronous
unlike the rendering phase, which can be paused.
So committing cannot be interrupted.
Now this is necessary so that the DOM
never shows partial results
which ensures that the UI always stays consistent.
In fact, that's the whole point of dividing
the entire process into the render phase
and the commit phase in the first place.
It's so that rendering can be paused, resumed, and discarded
and the results of all that rendering
can then be flushed to the DOM in one go.
Then once the commit phase is completed,
the work in progress fiber tree becomes
the current tree for the next render cycle.
That's because, remember, fiber trees are never discarded
and never recreated from scratch.
Instead, they are reused
in order to save precious rendering time.
And with that, we close up the commit phase.
The browser will then notice that the DOM has been changed,
and as a result, it will repaint the screen
whenever it has some idle time.
So this is where these DOM updates are finally made visible
to the user in the form of an updated user interface.
Now, I'm not gonna go into how this phase works
because this is really more
about how browsers work internally, and not React.
However, there's still one more thing
that we need to talk about.
So the browser paint face that we just mentioned
is of course performed
by whatever browser the user is using.
And the render phase is obviously performed
by the React Library.
But what about the commit phase?
We would think that it's also done by React, right?
But actually that's not true.
It's actually a separate library that writes to the DOM,
and it's called React DOM.
So not very creative, but that's just what it's called.
So in fact, React itself does never touch the DOM,
and it actually has no idea where the result
of the render phase will actually be committed and painted.
So React only does the render phase
but not the commit phase.
And the reason for that is
that React itself was designed to be used independently
from the platform where elements will actually be shown,
and therefore React can be used
with many different so-called hosts.
Now up until this point, we have only ever thought
of React in conjunction with a DOM
because we usually use it to build web application.
And in 90% of the cases,
that's actually what we do with React.
But the truth is
that React is used with other hosts as well.
For example, we can actually build
native mobile applications for iOS and Android
using React Native, or we can build videos with React
using a package called Remotion.
And we can even create all kinds of documents
like Word or PDF documents, Figma designs
and many more, using different so-called renderers.
Now, if we think about this,
Renderer is actually a pretty terrible name
because according to React's own terminology,
Renderers do not render,
but they commit the results of the render phase.
But I think that this Renderer name
comes from a time before React divided
the render and the commit phase into two separate phases.
And so they chose this term of Renderer
because it fits with the common sense
definition of rendering.
But anyway, in all these situations,
the results of the render phase
is not really a list of DOM updates,
but a list of updates of whatever elements
are used in the host that's being used.
So the term virtual DOM, then,
also doesn't really make much sense
when we look at it from this angle,
which is just one more reason why the React team prefers
the more accurate name of React Elementary.
Now, all these details are of course
not really that important.
What I want you to retain from this slide
is that the React Library is not the one responsible
for writing to the DOM,
because the DOM is just one of many hosts
to which React apps can be committed,
so to which they can be output, basically.
And for each of these hosts
we have a different package that we can use.
And that's why in our index.js file,
we always import both React and React DOM, right?
And so now you know the exact reason why we have to do that.
All right, so after looking at all these phases
in so much detail, let's do a quick recap here
and summarize everything that we have learned.
So the whole process of rendering
and displaying a React application on the screen
starts with a trigger, which can either be
the initial render of the app or, a state update
in one of the component instances.
This then triggers the render phase
which does not produce any visual output.
So this phase starts by rendering all component instances
that need a re-render.
And rendering in React simply means
to call the components functions.
This will create one or more updated React elements
which will be placed in a new virtual DOM,
which is actually simply a tree of React elements.
Now, what's really important to remember
about this process is that rendering a component
will cause all of its child components
to be rendered as well,
no matter if props changed or not.
This is because React doesn't know
whether children have been affected
by the parent re-rendering or not.
Now, next up, this new virtual DOM needs to be reconciled
with the current fiber tree.
So with the representation of the elementary
before the state update.
This is necessary because it would be slow and inefficient
to destroy and rebuild the entire DOM tree
each time that something on the screen must be updated.
Instead, reconciliation tries to reuse as much of the DOM
as possible by finding the smallest number
of DOM updates that reflect
the latest state update on the screen.
Now this reconciliation process is done
using a reconciler called Fiber,
which works with immutable data structure
called the fiber tree.
And in this tree, for each React element and DOM element,
there is a fiber, and this fiber holds
the actual component state, props, and a queue of work.
After reconciliation, this queue of work will contain
the DOM updates that are needed for that element.
Now the computation of these DOM updates is performed
by a diffing algorithm, which step by step compares
the elements in the new virtual DOM
with the elements in the current fiber tree,
so to see what has changed.
So the final result of the render phase,
so basically of this reconciliation and diffing process,
is a second updated fiber tree
as well as a list of all necessary DOM updates.
Now, it's important to note
that the render face is asynchronous
so fiber can prioritize and split work into chunks
and pause and resume some work later.
And this is necessary for concurrent features
and also to prevent the JavaScript engine to be blocked
by complex render processes.
But anyway, the output of the render phase,
so the list of DOM updates, will finally actually be written
to the DOM in the commit phase.
So in this phase, a so-called renderer like React DOM
will insert, delete, and update DOM elements
so that we end up with an updated DOM
that reflects the new state of the application.
And unlike the render phase,
the commit phase is actually synchronous.
So all the DOM updates are performed in one go
in order to ensure a consistent UI over time.
Now finally, once the browser realizes
that the DOM has been updated, it starts a new browser paint
in order to visually update
the user interface on the screen.
Okay, and there you have it.
This is how, in a nutshell,
we go from updated React elements all the way
to an updated DOM and user interface on the screen.
So it sure was a really long process
but I hope that you have learned a lot along the way
and that it wasn't too overwhelming.
And again, keep in mind that you can build React apps
without being aware that most of these things even exist.
Now, some of these things do have practical implications
and also implications for performance
but we will talk about those later.
For now, just take a breath
as this was probably the hardest part of the entire course,
so good job of sticking with it to the end.
And let me know what you think
of the series of lectures in the Q and A.