React 觀念
In the lecture about the render phase,
we left out one critical piece,
which was the diffing algorithm that is part
of the reconciliation process.
So we mentioned diffing back then
but we didn't really go into how diffing works.
And since that's really important, let's do that now.
So diffing is first
of all based on two fundamental assumptions.
The first one is that two elements
of different types will produce different trees.
The second assumption is that elements with a stable key,
so a key that is consistent over time,
will stay the same across renders.
Now these assumptions may seem pretty obvious
especially the first assumption
but they allow the algorithm to be orders
of magnitude faster going, for example,
from a billion operations per a thousand processed elements
to just a thousand operations.
Now remember that diffing is comparing elements step-by-step
between two renders based on their position in the tree.
And there are basically two different situations
that need to be considered.
First, having two different elements at the same position
in the tree between two renders
and second having the same element
at the same position in the tree.
So those are the only two situations that matter.
And so let's now start with the first situation.
So let's say that
at some point an application is re-rendered,
and in the diffing process,
we find that an element has changed
in a certain position of the tree.
Now here we're actually not looking at a tree
but at the JSX code, which leads to that tree because I find
that it's a bit easier to understand this way.
But anyway, in the case
of a DOM element changing like this, changing simply means
that the type of the element has changed
like in this example from a div to a header.
So in a situation like this, React will assume
that the element itself plus all its children
are no longer valid.
Therefore, all these elements will actually be destroyed
and removed from the DOM.
And that also includes their state, which is really
important to remember.
So as we see in this example, both the diff element
and the search bar component will be removed from the DOM
and will then be rebuilt as a header with a brand
new search bar component instance as the child.
So if the child elements stays the same across renders,
the tree will actually get rebuilt,
but it gets rebuilt with brand new elements.
And so if there were any components with state
that state will not be recovered.
So this effectively resets state
and this has huge implications
for the way that React applications work in practice.
And that's why we will see some examples
of this behavior in the next lecture.
Now, everything we just learned works the exact same way
for React elements, so basically for component instances
as we can see in this second example.
So here the search bar component changed
to a profile menu component
and therefore the search bar is again completely destroyed
including its date and removed from the DOM.
Okay, so this is the first situation.
The second situation is when between two renders
we have the exact same element
at the same position in the tree.
And this one is actually way more straightforward.
So if after a render, an element
at a certain position in the tree is the same as before,
like in these examples right here,
the element will simply be kept in the DOM.
And that includes all child elements
and more importantly, the components state.
Now this may sound pretty obvious
but it actually has some important implications in practice.
So again, the same element at the same position
in the tree stays the same and preserves state, and it works
like this for DOM elements and for React elements as well.
Now, looking at these examples
we actually see that something has changed.
However, it was not the element type that has changed
but simply the class name attribute in the diff
and the weight prop in the search power component.
And so what React is gonna do is to simply
mutate the DOM element attributes.
And in the case of React elements
it'll pass in the new props, but that's it.
So React tries to be as efficient as possible
and so the DOM elements themselves will stay the same.
They're not removed from the DOM, and even more importantly
the state will not be destroyed.
Now sometimes we actually don't want this standard behavior
but instead to create a brand new component instance
with new state.
And so that's where the key prop comes into play
as we will learn about after seeing these rules
that we just learned about in action.