React 觀念
Remember how I mentioned the key prop
when we talked about how the diffing algorithm works.
And so, let's not take some time
to look at the key prop in detail
in order to learn what it does and when we need to use it.
So, the key prop is a special prop
that we can use to tell the differing algorithm
that a certain element is unique.
And this works for both DOM elements and React elements.
So in practice, this means that we can give
each component instance a unique identification,
which will allow React to distinguish
between multiple instances of the same component type.
Now that's all great, but why do we actually need this?
Well, remember that the second assumption
of the diffing algorithm
is that whenever an element has a stable key,
so a key that stays the same across renders,
the element will be kept in the DOM,
even if the position in the tree has changed.
And this is the whole reason why we should use the key prop
in lists as we have already done
so many times throughout the course.
And so, in the next slide,
you will finally learn why we need to do that.
On the other hand, when the key
of a certain element changes between renders,
the element will be destroyed and a new one will be created
in its place, even if the elements positioned
in the tree is exactly the same as before.
And so this is great to reset state,
which is the second big use case of the key prop.
But let's go back to the first big use case of the key prop,
which is to use keys in lists.
And let's start by considering this example without keys.
So here, we have a list with two question items,
which clearly have no key prop
but let's see what happens when we add a new item
to the top of the list.
Well, the two list items that we already had are clearly
still the same, but they will now appear
at different positions in the React Elementary.
They're no longer the first and second children
but now they are the second and the third children.
So, we basically have the same elements
but at different positions in the tree.
And so according to the differing rules
that we learned earlier, these two DOM elements
will be removed from the DOM and then immediately recreated
at their new positions.
And this is obviously bet for performance because removing
and rebuilding the same dumb element is just wasted work,
right?
But the thing is that React
doesn't know that this is wasted work.
Of course, we developers intuitively know
that these two elements are actually the same as before
but React has no way of knowing that.
But what if we could actually change that?
Well, that's where keys come into play because remember,
a key allows us developers to uniquely identify an element
so we can give React that information
that it doesn't have on its own.
And so now when we add a new item to the top of the list,
the two original elements are of course,
still in different positions of the tree
but they do have a stable key.
So, a key that stays the same across renders.
So that's q1 and q2 in this case.
And so according to the differing rules,
these two elements will now be kept in the dump
even though their position in the tree is different.
So, they will not be destroyed.
Entry result will be a bit more of a performant UI.
Now of course, you won't really notice this difference
on small lists, but it will make a huge difference
when you have a really big list with thousands of elements,
which can actually happen in some applications.
So in summary, always use the key prop
when you have multiple child elements of the same type.
So just like the question elements in this example
and you already knew that you should do that because well,
otherwise, React will complain and give us a warning
but now, you hopefully understand exactly
why you need to do it.
Alright, so we looked at the use case for a stable key.
And so now let's look at the use case for a changing key,
which is used to reset state in component instances.
Now here, we don't need a big code example
because we will do this in practice in the next lecture.
But let me just show you what I mean by resetting state.
So, let's say we have this question, inside question box
and we pass in this object as a prop.
Now the question component instance has an answer state,
which right now is set to React allows us
to build apps faster.
But now, let's imagine that the question changes
to this one.
So, we still have the same element at the same position
in the tree.
All that changed was the question prop.
So, what do you think will happen to the state in this case?
Well, let's remember one of the diffing rules, which says
that if we have the same element at the same position
in the tree, the DOM element and its state will be kept.
Therefore, what's gonna happen is that the state of question
will be preserved.
So, it will still show the answer
that was in the component state before.
But that answer is
of course completely irrelevant to this new question, right?
So, it doesn't make any sense to keep this state
around here.
So basically, what we need is a way to reset this state.
And as you can guess,
this is where the key prop comes into play once again.
So now, we have a key of q23
in this first question, which allows React
to uniquely identify this component instance.
Then when a new question appears,
we can give it a different key.
And so by doing this, we tell React
that this should be a different component instance
and therefore, it should create a brand new DOM element.
And the result of doing this
is that the state will be reset,
which is exactly what we need in the situation
in order to make this small app work in a logical way.
So, whenever you find yourself
in a position where you need to reset state,
just make sure that you give the element a key
and that the key changes across renderers.
Now, this actually is necessary very often
but you will sometimes find yourself in this situation.
And so when this happens,
it's very important to know that this is the solution.
Okay.
And to make this even more clear now,
let's go back to our small project.