So, as I was just saying
let's now go back to our Eat-'N-Split app
to fix one problem that we have left in that application.
So, let's come to our desktop
and then grab the project folder and open it in VS Code.
Okay, and so now we have two VS Code windows open,
and we will also start two React apps at the same time.
So, let's just write npm start,
hit enter, and then it will ask you
to use another port instead.
And so, that's simply because you're already running
one app here in this other port, and of course,
each one can only have one app running.
So, just hit enter or Y
as you reached this step, and then you will see
your application pop up right here.
Let's get a bit more space,
and then, let me show you the problem
that we actually left here.
So, let's say that we typed some values in here,
and then, we moved to another friend.
So, here we have exactly the same problem as before.
So, as we select another friend,
the only thing that changes is really the props
that is being passed here into this component.
So, let's check out the name of that component
as I don't remember it.
So,
yeah, it's this FormSplitBill.
So this one receives the selectedfriend object,
but as you see here, as we change,
nothing changes in the dumbtree.
And so, across these re-renders,
exactly the same component is rendered in exactly
the same position of the tree.
So, just like before.
And so, therefore, the state is not reset across renders,
but also just like before,
this is not the behavior that we would expect
in this application, right?
So, if suddenly we move from one friend to the other one,
we would certainly expect that the bill value here
should be reset.
So how can we do that?
Well, let's see where we are using this form SplitBill.
So, that should be somewhere here in the app probably.
So,
yeah, here it is.
And so, now we basically need to make
each component instance here unique
so that each time that it is rendered
with a new friend, React will see this
as a completely new component instance.
And as you already know, the way we do that
is by providing a key
that will actually change across the re-renders.
So here we can use the selectedfriend.id,
I guess.
So let's just see if they actually have an ID,
and, yeah, they have.
So, we could also use the name here, really.
So, those are also different, but the ID is really
a unique identifier.
So let's see.
So we are at Sarah, and so, therefore,
let's see down here.
So, here we see that the key now is 933 whatever.
And so, let's move to another friend.
And there we go.
So we fixed our problem
because now, the component instance has another key,
and so, therefore it is a completely unique instance
right now.
Great, and that's actually it.
So that's all we have to do here.
So let's close this one.
And let's also close this.
So we are finished.
We are back in our project that we were working on before.
And so, yeah, there's nothing left to do.
And so, let's move on right to the next lecture.