React 觀念
In order for the rendering process to work
in the way that we just learned before,
our render logic needs to follow some simple rules.
So, let's look at these rules in this lecture
but first of all, what actually is render logic?
Well, in order to understand that,
let's actually take a look at the two types
of logic that we can write in React components.
So, that's render logic and event handler functions.
So, render logic is basically all the code that lifts
at the top level of your component functions
and that participates in describing how the view
of a certain component instance should look like.
So in this code example, there is a lot of render logic.
So we have these two lines of code at a top level
and then also the return block where our component returns
it's JSX.
So these describe exactly how the component
will be displayed on the screen.
However, if we look closely, we can identify
yet another piece of render logic here, even though
this code is actually inside a function.
So as you can see in the return block, the code there
is actually calling this createList function.
And therefore, that logic also participates
in describing the component view.
And so, it's also render logic.
So basically, render logic is all the code
that is executed as soon as the component is rendered.
So each time that the function is called.
Now moving on to event handler functions,
those are very easy to identify.
So, they're basically pieces of code that are executed
as a consequence of the event that the handler
is listening to.
So in our example, we have this line of code
that essentially registered handle new answer
for the change event and therefore handle new answer
is our event handle function.
And this is of course nothing new at this point.
So we have done this many times in the course, right?
But it's still important to differentiate
between these two types of logic
because they do actually do fundamentally different things.
So while render logic is code that renders the component,
event handlers contain code that actually does things.
So basically code that makes things happen
in the application.
So, event handlers contain things like state updates,
HTTP requests, reading input fields, page navigation,
and many more.
So all things that basically change
and manipulate the application in some way.
Now why is this all so important?
Well, it's important because React requires
that components are pure when it comes to render logic
in order for everything to work as expected.
But what does pure actually mean?
To answer that, let's have a quick refresher
on functional programming principles,
which are quite important in React in general.
And let's start with side effects.
So, a side effect happens whenever a function depends
on any data that is
outside the function scope, or even more importantly
whenever a function modifies data that is outside its scope.
And I like to think as a side effect
as a functions interaction with the outside world.
For example, this function is mutating an outside object.
And so this is clearly a side effect.
Other examples of side effects are HTTP requests,
riding to the DOM, setting timers and more.
The other important functional concept is pure functions,
which are basically functions without side effects.
So basically, these are functions that do not change
any variable outside their scope.
Also, when we give a pure function the same input,
it'll always return the same output.
For example, this function is clearly a pure function
because if we give it the same argument r,
it'll always give us the area
of the circle based on that r value.
So the output only depends on the inputs,
which makes this function predictable.
This other function right here on the other hand
is completely unpredictable
because it returns a string that contains a date
and that date changes every second.
So in this case, even
if we give the function the same input,
the output will always be different
because the date will always be different
and therefore, this is an impure function.
And the same is true for the second function.
So notice how this function mutates an outside variable,
which of course makes this function impure as well.
Now, calling functions impure makes it sound
as if side effects are somehow bad
but that's actually not true.
So, side effects are not bad in themselves.
In fact, if we think about it,
any program can only be useful if it has some interaction
with the outside world at some point, right?
Like a web application that never affects any data
or never writes to the DOM is just completely useless.
However, in order to make useful and bug-free applications,
we need to know when and how to create side effects,
which brings us back to React
and its rules for render logic.
And essentially, there's just one big rule,
which is that components must be pure functions
when it comes to render logic.
This means that if we give a certain component instance
the same props, so the same input,
then the component should always return
the exact same output in the form of JSX.
In practice, this means that render logic
is not allowed to produce any side effects.
So in other words, the logic that runs
at the top level and is responsible
for rendering the component should have no interaction
with the outside world.
This means that render logic is not allowed
to perform network requests to create timers
or to directly work with the DOM API.
For example, listening to events using at event listener.
Now, according to what we learned previously,
render logic must also not mutate objects
or variables that are outside the scope
of the component function.
And this is actually the reason why we cannot mutate props,
which remember is one of the hard rules of React.
And so now you know why that rule exists.
It's because doing so would be a side effect
and side effects are not allowed.
Finally, we really cannot update state
or refs in render logic.
And updating state in render logic would actually create
an infinite loop, which is why we can never do that.
State updates are technically not side effects
but it's still important for them to be on this list.
Now, there are other side effects that are technically
not allowed as well, but that we create all the time
like using console.log or creating random numbers.
So these are clearly interactions with the outside world
but they don't seem to do any harm.
And so we can safely keep doing them.
Alright, but now you might be wondering if all this stuff
is not allowed, then how will I ever be able
to make an API call to fetch some data?
Well, keep in mind that these side effects
are only forbidden inside render logic.
This means that you have other options
for running your side effects.
First of all, we saw earlier that event handler functions
are not render logic and therefore, side effects
are allowed and actually encouraged
to be used inside these functions.
And second, if we need to create a side effect as soon
as the component function is first executed,
we can register that side effect
using a special hook called useEffect.
But we will learn all about that in the next section.
For now, let's move on to another super important topic,
which is state update batching.