React 觀念
All right.
And now to finish off this section
let's talk about something entirely different.
So this lecture is not really
about how React works behind the scenes,
but more about what React actually is,
which is a library.
So for future React developers like you
it's important to understand what it means
that React itself is a library and not a framework.
And so let's now learn about the differences,
as well as the React ecosystem.
And to understand the difference
between a framework and a library,
let's start with an analogy.
So imagine that you want to make your own sushi
for the first time,
just like I did recently for the first time as well.
So, you have two choices about how you want to do it.
The first option is to just buy one
of those all in one sushi kits,
which will come with all the ingredients that you need
and so then you don't have to buy anything separately.
All you have to do is to assemble these ingredients
into your sushi.
However, there is also a downside to this
because now you are stuck with the ingredients
that are included in the kit that you bought.
So if you find out
that you don't like one of these ingredients,
then you still have to use it anyway.
Now, instead of getting an all in one kit,
you also have to option to buying
all the ingredients separately.
And so this will give you complete freedom
to choose only the best ingredients
and the ones that you like the most.
On the other hand,
all this freedom can give you decision fatigue
because now for each ingredient
you need to research which brand is the best option
and then you also have to go buy each
of the products separately.
And even worse,
if one of your selected brands changes or is no longer sold
then you need to start the whole process over.
Now, okay,
but probably at this point you're wondering,
"Why is he going on and on about sushi?"
Well, the reason is
that this analogy actually translates beautifully
into the difference between building a web application
using a framework or using a library.
So we could actually just replace the images here
and call it a day.
So, we could describe Angular, Vue, or Svelte, for example
as the all-in one kit
and React as buying separate ingredients.
And the pros and cons of building a web up
with each of these approaches
are basically exactly the same
as in making sushi at home.
Okay, but actually, let's now replace these terms
with their actual definitions
and actually learn what's the difference
between a framework and a library.
So, in the world of JavaScript
a framework is basically a complete structure
that includes everything that you need
in order to build a complete large scale application.
We can say that frameworks
like Angular are batteries included
because they include stuff like routing, styling,
HTTP requests for management,
and more all out of the box.
Now, the downside of this is that you're stuck
with the framework's tools and conventions
even if you don't like or agree with them.
However, that's actually not always bad.
And so this is not a real downside for some developers.
Now, on the other hand,
we have JavaScript libraries,
which are basically pieces of code
that developers share for other developers to use.
And the prime example here is of course, React,
which is what we call a view library,
view because all React does is to draw components
onto a user interface,
so onto a so-called view.
Now, if you want to build
a large scale single page application,
you will need to include many external third party libraries
for things like routing, styling, HTTP requests, and so on.
So all these functionalities are not part of React itself
unlike what happens with Angular and other frameworks.
And so this is how this notion
that React is a library ties into the analogy
of buying separate ingredients to make sushi.
Because to build a React app,
we have to choose all these separate libraries.
Now, don't get me wrong here.
We can actually build React apps with just React itself.
So, without using any libraries,
but that only makes sense for small apps
or while we are still learning React.
Now, being able to choose multiple libraries
in order to build your application
offers you incredible freedom
because you can choose exactly
the ones that you like the most.
And also every app will have different requirements.
And so each app will require a different combination
of libraries.
And so including all of them
in a framework might not even be necessary.
However, on the other hand,
the implication of this is that as a React developer,
you need to be able to find
and download all the right libraries
for your specific application.
And of course, on top of that
you then need to learn how to use these libraries
and even stay up to date with them over time.
But don't worry, it's actually not as bad as it may sound.
So, if you follow this course until the end
you will have a very good understanding
of the most important libraries that we usually include
into most React projects,
which leads me actually to the next point,
which is React's huge third party library ecosystem.
So, React's huge popularity has led to a really,
really large ecosystem of libraries that we can include
in our React projects for different needs like routing
for single page applications, making http requests,
managing remote server state,
managing global application state,
styling, managing forms, animations and transitions,
and even entire UI component libraries.
Now, I will not go over all of them here one by one
because that just takes too much time
and you can also just research them if you need.
So instead, I will show you which ones I consider
the most important libraries
and so these are the ones that we will use later
in the course.
So things like React Router, React Query,
Redux, styled components, or Tailwind.
Now, many React developers actually do feel overwhelmed
by having to take so many decisions and choosing
between so many third party libraries.
And so this fact, among some other reasons,
has led to the development
of multiple opinionated React frameworks
such as Nextjs, Remix or Gatsby.
So, Nextjs or Remix are React frameworks
because they are actually built on top of React.
So they basically extend React's functionality
and they are opinionated because other developers basically
included their own opinions into how to handle stuff
like routing, state management,
or styling into these frameworks.
So, where in a traditional React app,
we have to make decisions about what libraries to include
in an app built with a React framework.
Some of these important decisions
have already been taken away from you, the developer.
And so this makes project development much easier
and much faster,
and it can also lead
to a better overall developer experience.
Now, different frameworks specialize in different aspects,
but all of them offload much of the setup work from you.
Also, all of them offer many other advantages
besides just being opinionated,
such as server side rendering
or static site generation.
In fact, we can even describe many of these frameworks
as full stack React frameworks
because they include so many features
that we can actually build full stack apps with them,
all while using React as the base layer.
But anyway,
this is just a brief overview of React frameworks.
We will learn a lot more about this
in the last part of the course
where we will actually build a very large project
using Nextjs.
Now, this will not be included in the course at launch time,
but I will include it at a later point.
But at this point, I just wanted to let you know
that these frameworks exist
because of course we can only learn about them
once we really master React itself
and also its most important third party libraries.