React 觀念
Welcome to the last lecture
of this section.
And it was a long
and complicated section, I know.
But hopefully, you enjoyed learning
about all these internal workings of React
as much as I did.
And now, to finish,
I thought it was a great idea
to summarize the key learnings
that you should retain from this section.
Now, this is not a summary
of everything that we learned
but only the practical takeaways and conclusions
that you will actually need
to know in practice
as you build your own React apps
and this is necessary
because I've mentioned multiple times
that you actually don't need
to know all this complicated stuff
about how React works behind the scenes
but you do need to know
the practical implications of it.
And so in this lecture is where I gathered
all those practical implications
in the form of text slides that you can save
and read in the future.
But anyway, let's now move on
to our first point,
which is that a component is basically
like a blueprint for a piece of UI
that will eventually exist on the screen.
When we then use a component,
React creates a component instance,
which is like an actual physical manifestation
of a component, which contains props,
state, effects, and more.
So following the analogy of the blueprint,
the component is like a blueprint for a house
and the component instances
are like the actual houses
that have been built from that blueprint.
Finally, a component instance when rendered,
will return a React element.
Okay, so let's now move on to rendering.
So in React, rendering only means
calling component functions
and calculating what dumb elements need
to be inserted, deleted, or updated later.
So rendering has nothing to do
with actually writing.
So with actually updating the DOM.
Writing to the DOM is actually called
committing in the React language.
So what I want you to remember here
is that each time a component instance
is rendered and re-rendered,
the function is simply called again.
But what actually triggers a render to happen?
Well, as you should probably know already,
only the initial app render
and state updates can cause a render
which will happen for the entire application.
So even though it might look
as if only one single component is rendered,
the process is actually executed for all components.
Now, when a component instance
does get re-rendered, all its children
will get re-rendered as well.
Now, this doesn't mean that all children
will get updated in the DOM
because thanks to reconciliation,
React will check which elements
have actually changed between the two renders.
Now, one of the main parts of this reconciliation
that I just mentioned is diffing.
So diffing is how React decides
which dumb elements need to be added
or modified later.
Now, if between two renders,
a certain React element stays
at the same position in the elementary,
the corresponding DOM element
and the component state
will simply stay the same.
So the DOM will not be modified in this case
which is a huge win for performance.
However, if the element did change
to a different position in the tree
or if it changed
to a different element type altogether,
then the DOM element
and the corresponding state will be destroyed.
So they will basically be reset.
Now, one cool thing about the diffing algorithm
is the fact that we can actually influence it
by giving elements a key prop,
which then allows React to distinguish
between multiple component instances
of the same component type.
So when the key on a certain element
stays the same across renders,
the element is kept in the DOM
even if it appears
at a different position in the tree.
And so this is the reason why
we need to use keys in lists
because it will prevent unnecessary recreations
of elements in the DOM.
Now, on the other hand,
when we change the key between renders,
the DOM element will be destroyed and rebuilt.
And so this is a very nice trick
that we can use in order to reset state,
which is sometimes necessary as we saw
in two practical examples in this section.
Next, we have one very important rule
that you must never ever forget
which is that you should never declare
a new component inside another component.
That's because doing so will recreate
that nested component every time
the parent component re-renders
so that nested component
would always be a new variable basically.
And so this means that React
would always see the nested component
as a brand new component,
and therefore reset its state each time
that the parent's state is updated.
Now, the reason why this happens
is not the important part,
but what matters is that
you should always, always declare.
So you should write new components
at the top level of a file,
never inside another component.
Now, the logic that is responsible
for creating DOM elements
so basically logic that produces JSX
is called render logic
and this render logic is not allowed
to produce any side effects.
So render logic can have no API calls,
no timers, no object or variable mutations,
and no state updates.
The only place where side effects are allowed
is inside event handlers and inside useEffect.
Okay, now, after all this rendering,
it's time to finally update the DOM,
which happens in the commit phase.
However, it's actually not React
that does this committing
but a so-called renderer called ReactDOM.
That's why we always need
to include both these libraries
in a React web application project.
We can also use other renderers
to use React on different platforms.
For example, to build mobile
or native applications with React native.
All right, and now,
for the rest of this last slide,
let's leave the topics related to rendering behind
and quickly talk about state and events.
So when we have multiple state updates
inside an event handler function,
all these state updates will be batched.
So basically, they will happen all at once
and this is super important because it means
that multiple related state updates
will only create one re-render which,
once again, is great for performance.
And since React 18, automatic batching
even happens inside timeouts,
promises, and native event handlers.
Now, one super important practical implication of this
is that we cannot access a state variable
immediately after we update it
which is why we say
that state updates are asynchronous.
Next up, when we use events
inside event handler functions,
we get access to a so-called synthetic event object,
not the browser's native object.
So the React team created synthetic events
so that events work the exact same way
across all browsers
and the main difference between synthetic
and native events is that
most synthetic events do actually bubble
and that includes the focus, blur,
and change events, which do usually not bubble
as native browser events.
The only exception here is the scroll event.
Okay, and now, finally,
let's remember that React is a library
and not a framework.
This means that you can basically assemble
your applications using your favorite
or the community's favorite third-party libraries
and this is great for flexibility
and creative freedom.
The downside of this freedom is that
there is an basically infinite amount
of libraries that you can choose from.
And so you need to first find and then learn
all these additional libraries that you need.
However, that's not that big of a problem
because you will learn
about the most commonly used libraries
in the main projects of this course.
All right, and there you have it.
So this is essentially what I need you to remember
from this section going forward.
And again, I hope that you found this section
as interesting as I did.
But no matter if you did or not,
please leave your comments about it
in the Q and A section.
And now, maybe take some time
to basically recover from all this new material
and all these new concepts that you learned.
And then once you're done,
I'll see you in the next section.