So, with the topic of useState now behind us,
let's turn our focus on something called refs.
And so, in this lecture, let's manually select a dom element
so that you see why we actually need refs in React.
So, as an experiment,
let's try to automatically give this input element, here,
focus each time that the Search component mounts.
So, basically, each time the application mounts,
we will automatically focus on this input field.
Okay.
And, in order to do that,
we actually need to select this element.
And so let's try to do that
with the tools that we already have.
So we come here into our Search component,
which is where that input field is located.
And so, then, we can basically use a useEffect
and then manually select this dom element right here.
So let's try that out.
And then let's execute this effect
as soon as this component mounts.
So let's create some element
by simply doing document.querySelector,
and then we can just use the className
that is already here on the element,
so .search.
Okay, just to see if this works,
let's log this to the console.
And you see that, indeed, there is our input field.
And so now what we can do is to just say el,
so just this element,
and then call the focus method on that.
And so this is just some straightforward,
typical dom manipulation.
Okay.
And so now, if we load the application,
and so you see, as the application first loaded,
this input field automatically got focused,
so our code here is basically doing its job.
However, as we learned at the very beginning,
React is all about being declarative.
And so manually selecting a dom element like this
is not really the React way of doing things.
So it's not in line with the rest of our React code.
So, in React, we really don't want
to manually add event listeners, like this,
and also having to add classes or IDs
just for the purpose of selecting is not really nice.
And, again, not really the React way of doing things.
So here we already had the className, of course,
but if we didn't,
then we would have to now add that className or ID here
to then use it in the effect to select the element.
Also, if for some reason we would need some dependency here,
for example,
if this code should rerun each time the query changes,
then that would mean
that we would select the element here over and over again,
which is also not ideal.
Okay, and so, to solve all these problems
and to make the action
of selecting an elements more declarative,
such as everything else in React,
we need the concept of refs.
And so that's what we're going to learn about
in the next video.