Let's start building a brand new app
that will hopefully show you how extremely helpful
the useReducer Hook can be.
And so this is the application that we are going to build
and it's called "The React Quiz."
So as the name says, this is basically a very simple quiz
about some React concepts.
So this starts by actually loading
the questions from a fake API.
And so at this point, we have received those 50 questions,
and so then we can start the quiz right here.
So here then, we have the question
with the four different options,
and up here, we can see our progress
and the number of points that we have won so far.
So here then, we can of course click on the correct option.
In this case, React is the most popular framework.
And so then immediately, it is marked as correct.
And also, the next button here appears
so that we can move to the next one.
And now this time, let's choose a wrong option.
And so of course, the correct one
is still marked here as correct.
Now of course, I will not go through the entire quiz here,
but we will see what the end result,
so when we reach the end of the quiz, looks like.
Now, just notice that here, we also have a timer running,
and so when this timer finishes,
then we automatically lose or we actually finish
the quiz by then automatically
and we only get the points that we have gathered
up until that point.
So all the state that we see here on the screen,
so which question was selected, the number of points,
which question we are right now, the timer,
and really, all the state is just managed
by one big reducer,
because that's what this section is all about, right?
Now, in this lecture, all I want to do
is to just set up here the app skeleton.
So basically, just setting up the structure
with the header and the app itself.
And so then in the next lecture,
we can start fetching the questions
and start building the application.
So we no longer need this component here.
And instead, let's come back to App.
And here, we then remove that date counter.
Okay.
So our parent div here will have the class name of app,
and then inside that app, we will have a header.
So basically, this part here with the logo
and the name of the application.
Now, as I said in one of the previous sections,
we will now start to actually create one file per component,
so making this project development a bit more real world.
Now, in case of the header,
I actually already created that component for us.
So it's just this very simple component
that doesn't even have any logic or any state
and it doesn't even accept props.
So it's just a very simple presentational component
that has the image,
so the logo and the title.
And so let's include that here,
just like this.
And of course, we then need to import that component
from that file.
So in the current folder, and then header.
And there we go.
So there we have our header and then, here below that,
we will have basically the main content.
And so for that main content,
let's create a main component.
And before we do that, I will just write the markup here.
So let's say that we want a main element
with the class actually of main as well.
And then for example, let's say we want a paragraph
with the progress, let's say 1 or 15.
So this is just some dummy content here.
And then, the question itself.
All right, so let's say that we just have this,
but we want it to be not inside the main HTML element here,
but instead, we want it to be inside its own component,
so that then here, our app component stays nice and clean.
So just having like different components,
but not these elements with their class names.
So let's then create a new file with a new component.
So this one will be called Main.js,
because Main will be the name of the component.
And now let's actually, for the first time,
use that snippet that I gave you
at the very beginning of the course.
So remember that.
Let's come here to the user snippets
and then it should be one of these.
Yeah, so the snippet that I mean is the RFC snippet.
And if, for some reason, you didn't add this
to your own snippets at the beginning of the course,
then you can just maybe copy the code from here
or you can go back to that setup lecture
at the beginning of the course,
because again, we will now use that snippet
and it will be extremely handy.
So all we have to write is RFC, hit Enter, and bam,
it creates a brand new component for us,
even with the name of the file.
So it got the name here from the file
and then it accordingly named the component.
And so now all we have to do
is to change, right here, our markup.
Now here, we want to change from a div to a main element.
And so remember how many times it was quite annoying
that we had to change this opening tag and the closing tag.
And so to fix that, let's install this extension right here.
So Auto Rename Tag.
So I already have it installed,
but just go ahead and do that.
And so then when I change this div to Main,
then you see that both of them change at the same time.
So here, the class name again of Main.
And now here, what will we place as the content?
Well, basically here, we want this content to stay
in this component,
so we want to just pass it into the main.
And so for that, we use the children prop.
Remember?
So basically doing component composition here.
And we have done this multiple times already at this point,
so this should be nothing new.
And so with this, all we have to do is to replace
this right here with Main.
And again, it then automatically replaced the tier.
And then all we have to do is import Main from Main.
Now, alright, now it looks the same here,
but now we have a bit of a better structure
and also, I think the component tree
is a lot more complete like this.
Well, actually this hasn't updated yet.
Yeah, so then also in the tree,
we can see that we have the app,
a header and a main part.