So let's now render
and display the current question.
So of course, we will not render all the questions
at the same time here, but instead, one by one.
And so therefore, we need a way of knowing
which the current question is.
So basically, we need some way of keeping track
which question is the current one.
And so let's add a new piece of state
to our initial state here.
And we could call this the current, or the current index,
but I would like to just call it index.
And this index starts at zero
because we will use this index here
to take a certain question object
out of the questions array.
And so the first element of this questions array
is element number zero,
therefore, our index starts at zero.
And so then in the future, at some point,
if we want to display the next question,
we can already imagine that we will do that
by changing this index.
So then in the future, when we change that index
from zero to one,
that should display the next question.
So it should then re-render the screen,
and therefore, this needs to be a state variable.
So that's the reasoning
behind why we need this variable right here,
or this piece of state,
and also why it needs to be state in the first place.
And again, it's because it needs to re-render the screen
once it is updated.
But anyway, let's now take this index
to pass in the right question object
into our question component.
So this component will, of course,
need access to that current question.
And as we just said, that will be questions,
so the array at the current position, which is index.
Now here, that is not available
because we haven't yet destructured this index
out of the state.
But there we go.
And now let's go to this component.
And just like before, if I hit the command key
and then click here,
it will automatically go to that component,
even if it is in another file.
So here, let's now receive that question.
And then let's display it.
Well, first, let's even take a look
at the shape of this object,
so that we actually know what we are dealing with.
So let's come to the console,
and as we click here, that should appear.
So inside the question,
we have the question property,
so that's what we want to use first.
So here we have basically question.question.
And so with this,
we get the question already here in the UI.
Great.
But then we also have this array of the options.
And so next, we will want to loop over this array,
and, of course, display these options as well.
Now, this time, I will not use an ordered list for that
because we will not have list elements,
but actual buttons.
So here, let's call this the options.
And so then here we loop over
question.options,
and then .map.
So here, each of them is a question,
or actually, it is an option.
And so then for each of them,
what I want to do is to return a button
with the class name of btn
and btn-option.
Okay and then, as for the text,
it should simply be the option itself
because as we see, this is just a simple string.
So each of the options is just the string
and so that's already looking great.
Let's just see what we have here.
Ah, of course, we are missing the key property
so very important for optimization
as we have already learned at this point.
So the options are unique
and therefore, we can use each of them as a key.
So as we reload, then let's start.
And there is our first question together with the options.
Nice.
Now here, actually,
I would like to split this component in two.
So whenever there is a list like this,
I personally prefer to have a smaller component
in a situation like this.
So based on the logical separation
of the content of this component,
I would say that we can now split this component.
So let's grab this entire part
and let's create a new component.
And actually, we are creating so many components,
that it is a common practice
to create a new folder called components.
And so this is where we then create our components.
So let's do this one right here
and then I will later put all the other ones there as well.
So options.js,
and then our snippet again.
And here we already have the JSX,
so let's place that there.
Now here, this is missing the question,
but let's, first of all, place all the other components
into this components folder.
So that's app, the date counter,
error, header,
loader, main question,
and start screen.
So we already have a lot of components here
and so let's place them all in there.
Now of course, we will have a problem
in the index.js file
because it is still trying to read the app component
from the same folder as before.
But so now it's in the components folder,
so we need to change that here,
but then all the other will still work
because we are importing them here inside app.js.
And so here we are importing them from the same folder
and so that's why this still works.
All right, but anyway,
coming back here to our options,
here we now need to receive the question.
And so then of course, we need to pass it in there
so we need to even import that here.
So options
and then with the current question
and then just importing that here.
So import options from,
and again, it's the same folder.
And let's test.
And there we go.
Now, of course, when we click here now, nothing happens.
And so that's what we will take care of in the next video.