So, now we have the simple task
of moving to the next question
as soon as an answer has been given.
So, as soon as the user clicks on one of these options,
we want a button down here to appear that we can click.
And so then we will move automatically to the next question.
Now, as we have discussed before,
moving to the next question,
basically means increasing this index here, right?
Because it is based on this index
that the current question is being read and then displayed.
So, that's what we do right here.
So we're passing in the questions object
that corresponds to the current index.
And so, let's now, here,
create yet another possible action in our reducer.
Now let's call this one just nextQuestion.
So, here, we will just return the current state,
and all we want to change is the index property
which will be set to state.index + 1,
and that should be it.
At least for now.
And so now, we need to create actually that button.
So, besides the question,
we want to then display the button.
And so that's actually always display a button component,
but that button component will then only render
the button element itself if there has been an answer.
So we could also do it the other way around,
and do the conditional rendering right here.
But instead, we're going to do that conditional rendering
inside the button.
So we will allow this next button to basically decide
if it wants to render itself or not.
And so, since we want to dispatch an action from there,
we need to pass that in.
And so, now of course, we need to create this component.
But before we do that,
here we have a problem because we need a fragment now.
Okay.
And now, as I was saying,
we need to create this new component right here.
Okay.
And then let's already receive the dispatch function,
but we also need the answer.
And so that's because of what I was saying earlier.
So that we want this component here to allow
if it wants to render the button or not,
in case there has been an answer.
So let's pass in also the current answer.
And of course, we then need to import
also this component here.
So just duplicate that.
And yeah, I think that should be it.
So let's go back here and accept that answer prop.
So doing an early return,
we can say if the answer is null,
which remember, means that there has been no answer,
then just return nothing here.
So just return null.
And otherwise, then we actually create a button.
So here, we say next,
and the class name should be btn and btn-ui.
And then finally, the onClick handler
will be a new function.
And then of course we dispatch a new action.
And so remember, this one is the one we just created
which is next question.
And for this state transition that this will trigger,
our reducer doesn't need any data,
and therefore there is no payload here necessary.
Okay.
And let's see if this works.
So let's start and let's click.
And indeed, there is our button.
And so let's now test.
And yeah, it moved forward to the next question,
but we still have a problem,
which is that our answer has not been reset.
And so, therefore, we are still showing
the previously given reply.
So that's easy to fix.
But what matters, is that we can now actually move
through these different questions.
So let's then just quickly fix that problem.
And so, all we need to do is to again,
come to our central place
where all these state updating takes place.
So, what should we do here?
Well, we just need to set the answer back to null,
and that will fix it.
And once again, we can really see here in action,
how all these different state variables
closely belong together.
And so the useReducer Hook, really was the perfect solution
for managing our state in this application.
But anyway, let's now again, test this,
and yeah, that fixes it.
So let's try another one here.
And this one is components,
just to see if our points are correctly updating.
Yeah, and they are.
So now we have 30 points,
which is 10 points for each question
that we just successfully answered.
And speaking of these points,
we now actually want to display them up here,
so the current points out of all the possible points,
together with the progress that we have been doing.
So basically displaying this part right here.
So, don't wait and let's move together
right to the next video to do that.