So as I have mentioned a few times already,
React is all about components,
but now let's formally learn what React components are
and why they are so important.
So components are the most fundamental concept in React,
simply because React applications are, in fact,
entirely made out of components.
So when you look at any React app,
there's nothing that is not a component
or at least not inside of some component.
Therefore, I like to say
that components are the building blocks
of any user interface in React.
In fact, basically all React does is to take components
and draw them onto a webpage,
so onto a user interface, or UI for short.
Now that sounds simple,
but it's actually the main job of React.
In more technical terms,
React renders a view for each component,
and all these views together make up the user interface.
So we can also think of a component
as being a piece of the user interface, right?
Now, one key property of components
is that each component has its own data,
JavaScript logic, and appearance.
So basically, each component describes how it works
and what it looks like, which makes them such a great way
of building user interfaces.
And speaking of building user interfaces,
based on what we have just learned,
it makes sense that in React
we build complex UIs like this one
by building multiple components,
and then combining these components like Lego pieces.
So here we can identify components
like a video player, a menu,
this questions list, and also this part
where we can refine the displayed questions.
So those are like the big components,
but we can identify many other smaller components
in this UI as well,
like for example, these filters right here.
And what you can see is that this filter is
inside the refined questions component, right?
So actually one thing that we do all the time is
to place components inside of other components,
or in other words, we nest components inside each other.
So nesting components is a key aspect of using components
in React along with component reusability.
Now, notice how we have three similar questions
in the questions list,
and so we can create one question component,
and then reuse it three times here.
Now, of course, the data for each of them is different,
but we can easily pass different data
into different question components
by using something called props,
which we're gonna talk about later.
So whenever we need some duplication in our UI,
we create a new component,
and we use it as many times as necessary.
So as you can see, one crucial skill
that you will learn throughout this course is
how to break a design like this into its components.
Now, one thing that helps with that
and with analyzing the components that we create
is a component tree like this one.
So this shows the hierarchy
that exists between the components
that make up the user interface,
and it makes it really easy to understand
how all of these components are nested inside each other
and really how they relate to one another.
We can also clearly see relationships between components,
like the refined questions
being the parent component of filters,
or the other way around that filters
is a child component of refined questions.
And we use these terms, so parent and child component,
all the time in React.
And so it's important to understand what they mean.
And so a component tree like this is perfect to understand
these kinds of relationships between components,
and I think that this is all you need
to know about components for now.
We will go really deep into some important concepts
like reusability later, but for now,
let's start to put some of these concepts into practice.