Let's continue building our application
by creating a brand new component
and by taking a first look at reusability.
But first, let's get the starter files for this project
from the files that we downloaded from GitHub.
So right here in the starter folder,
take these three, copy and then go into your project folder
and I will copy them for now here into the public folder.
So we have this folder of pizza images,
we have this starter data and this index.CSS
which we should probably move into this source folder.
So make sure that you have these two files here
after including the starter files.
And now let's come back here
and let's create that brand new component
that I was talking about.
So in React we write new components using functions.
So function, and I'm calling this one pizza
because it will contain some data about a pizza
and then here for now
we have no parameters to this function
and then the function body.
Now in React, there are two important rules
when we write components as functions.
First, the function name needs to start
with an uppercase letter like this
and second, the function needs to return some markup.
So usually in the form of JSX,
but we can't even return nothing, like returning null.
But here, let's just return some H2 element, for example
and then let's just write pizza.
So give it a save, but of course nothing will appear here
in the user interface, and that's
because we're not including this new component anywhere
and even ESLint is warning us about that here.
So this yellow line which says pizza is defined,
but never used.
So again, we're not including this pizza component
into our app component which is the component
that is currently being rendered on the screen.
So we can use our component here just like this.
So pizza
and then we immediately close the element like this.
This however will give us an error.
So right here, which we already saw before
and the reason for this error
is that each component can only return exactly one element,
not two elements as we have here.
So let's wrap this here into a div
and sometimes it can become a bit annoying
that VS Code automatically closes these elements for us,
but anyway, now we get our pizza in the UI.
And so that's because we now nested this pizza component
inside this app component.
And with nesting, I mean that we basically used
or caught this component here inside app.
What's very, very important to notice
is that by nesting, we do not mean
that we write a function inside this other function.
So what we should never do
is to nest the component declaration itself.
So like this, this still works actually,
but it's a very, very bad idea
for reasons that we will learn about later.
So never nest the function declarations,
but always declare all your components in the top level.
So just like this.
So again, when we say nesting components,
what we mean is that we call,
so we include one component into another like this.
Now, okay, so let's now make this pizza component here
just a little bit more interesting
and for that we are going to use our starter data here.
So let's open up data.js
and all we need is for is to select everything, then copy it
and then let's just paste it here.
Okay.
So as you see right now we are doing all the development
of this application in one big file.
While in the real world we divide our code into modules
and then include these modules into one another,
but here I just want to keep it simple
so we're not going to do that yet.
So actually we can then delete this data.js
and close this down.
So for now, we will simply use this here as an example.
So I will now copy, paste, let's say this pizza here
and use that here as the name
and then let's also grab the ingredients.
So let's just copy and paste all of this text
and notice that I'm really only interested in the text.
We don't need, of course, these quotes
because, again, this is just like writing HTML
and there you also don't need quotes, right?
So here, let's create a paragraph
and then immediately you see we get this red underline here
which is because, again,
we are trying to return two elements here
which is not allowed.
Okay, so here what I like to do
is to then move up this line here using a shortcut.
So let's see what that is for you.
So it's this move line up.
So you should probably get used to this shortcut
and this one so where we move lines up and down,
so like this for example,
so that's very, very helpful
and we're gonna do that all the time.
We just need to get rid of this semicolon that we have here,
which was right there.
Okay, so we have some text,
now let's also actually use this image
that we have in the public folder.
So yeah, this one right here.
So remember how I mentioned in the beginning
that all the assets of the app
will go into this public folder because Webpack,
so the module bundler will then basically
automatically get them from there.
And so we can now write an image here.
So again, just like HTML,
and then if we write a path to the image like this,
spinaci.jpg,
then Webpack will automatically get that here
from this folder and let's see if that works.
And indeed, there goes our image.
Now we get these yellow underline here
and that's because an ESLint rule
which says that images always should have an alt prop.
So let's just add that here.
So to make it a little bit more accessible,
let's just put the name of the pizza here
and then ESLint is happy.
So we have this component here
and now let's talk about the idea of reusing this component.
And for now, all we're going to do to reuse this component
is to basically use it several times.
So let's do three times just so you can see
that now this piece of UI, which is the pizza component,
will be included three times.
So three times this delicious spinach pizza.
Nice. Now of course the data here in all of them
is now the same because we didn't customize that data yet,
but we will do that later of course,
when we talk about props.
For now,
I just want you to get this really important concept
that we can call each piece of the UI
or in other words, each component multiple times here
in order to reuse it
and that's a fundamental concept
of writing React applications.
Now, just one final thing here,
and this has nothing to do with code,
is that maybe you have noticed
that we get all these colored lines here in the sidebar
and even down here.
Now the reason for this is that when we create a new project
with Create-React-App,
it will actually automatically set up this project
as a GitHub repo.
That's why you also get all these different colors here
and also here you see all the changes that we have made
to the different files.
So here we deleted some stuff, we modified some stuff,
and here these images are still untracked.
Now, since we're not really going to use GitHub
as we build these small projects,
I actually just want to remove these colored lines here
from the gutter, so from this place,
and for that we can go to our settings
and then just search for diff decorations.
So here the default is all, so let's set it to none.
And so then our editor will look
just a little bit cleaner here,
and we can close down the sidebar
and with this, we finish this lecture
and are ready to move on.