So at this point, we know
that React components can also contain CSS styles.
And so let's now learn about some simple ways
of applying CSS to React applications.
So in React we have many different ways
of styling our components
and React doesn't really care about how we do that.
It doesn't have an opinion about styling.
And the reason for that is that just
as we learned in the very beginning
React is actually more of a library than a framework.
So it doesn't have a preferred way of how we should style
our components and in the end our applications, therefore
we can choose between many different options.
For example, we can use inline styling
we can use external CSS or even SAS files.
We can use CSS modules, styled components, or even Tailwind
CSS is an option to style our components.
Now in this lecture
we will not go into all of these of course
but we will talk about many of them later.
For now, I just want to use inline CSS
and then also later include an external CSS file.
So as you might know, in HTML
we can actually style elements using this style attribute.
So just like this.
And then in HTML we write those styles
in a string like this.
However, in JSX, that's not how it works.
So in JSX, we actually need to define inline styles
using a JavaScript object.
So if we need to write a JavaScript object
we first need to enter JavaScript mode.
So that's what the curly braces are for.
But then we need another set of curly braces.
And so that is again, to now create an object.
And so here we can now define some properties.
So let's say we want to style this text
so this H1 text with a red color.
And so now as I give it a save, there it is,
there it changed.
And so with this, you have the easiest way.
So the most straight forward way to style components in JSX.
So simply using the style attribute that is also
available in HTML.
Now in HTML, we basically never ever use this
and that's because of the separation
of concerns that we talked about in the previous lecture.
So where we always had the CSS
in a separate file and never mixed together with the markup.
But here in React, as we just discovered,
doing that is completely fine and natural.
Let's try another one.
So now font size, which in CSS you would write
like this, right?
So font-size, but in JavaScript
that's not a valid property name.
And therefore all the CSS property names have
been converted basically in JSX to this camel case notation.
So you need to write font size like this.
Let's say 32 pixels.
And so since we're writing an object
then also this value always needs to be a string.
Now, well that didn't change anything.
Maybe that's already the size.
Let's see what happens with 48.
Yeah, so now it's bigger.
And let's try another one. Text transform.
And you see that as always vs code already
shows you here the available options.
So make sure to always write these property values.
Then basically here S strings, because again,
this is in the end just a JavaScript object
and you could even extract this out here.
So just cutting this, let's create a variable here.
Const style, and it could be any variable name of course.
Then let's place that here.
And it all still looks the same.
Great. So this is the easiest way
of adding some styling to individual components.
However, when the application gets just a little bit bigger
it can get out of hand
and can be a lot of work to write our styles like this.
So like creating an object
for each of these components, it's perfectly doable
but you don't see many people doing that in the real world.
Now one thing that we can do is to actually
include an external CSS files just
like we have been doing all the time in our applications.
And so that is the easiest way I would say to
style React applications, which is basically the same
as styling any other webpage.
Now in that case we're not really mixing DCSS concern
with the JavaScript and HTML concerns
in the way that we learned in the last lecture
but that's of course not a problem.
And also we will learn how to do that a little bit later
again, using something called styled components.
But for now, let's take a look at the CSS file
that we included here in the very beginning of this lecture.
And so this is, well
a very pretty standard CSS file with some classes here.
And so now we need to add these class names
to the JSX elements so that these classes then get applied.
So let's go back and before we do any of that,
so before we add the classes
we need to first import this CSS file.
So right now our application has no way
of knowing that the CSS file exists in the project.
So what we need to do here is to simply import that file.
And so once again
it is actually web pack that will take care
of then taking the styles out
of the CSS file and injecting them into our application.
So index dot CSS.
All right.
And you see already things changed here.
So the background color is different
the font family has changed.
Yeah, for now, think that's all.
And we also get this nice yellow border
at the bottom of the page.
So you see that immediately web pack
included these styles now in our application now, okay,
but now let's add the classes.
So you see that we have one container
we have a header, we have menu, and we probably have footer.
Yeah, so just very straightforward.
So here, let's add the class of container
and let me first do it in the wrong way.
So I will just write class as we would do in HTML
but then React will actually warn us.
So you see here, Invalid DOM property class
did you mean class name?
And so this is one of the important rules of JSX.
So in JSX we cannot use class, but instead class name.
Okay?
So this is a common beginner mistake, but now
you have been warned it still does work here somehow
but we are really not supposed to use class in JSX.
Now that's probably because class is already
a reserved keywords in JavaScript.
Okay, but let's keep going here.
So again, let's add last name here of header.
Alright? And now this didn't really change a lot
and that's because we still have this style here applied.
So we probably don't want that.
And so just to keep this here
I will duplicate this one, comment it out
and then I will just make this an empty object.
Well, and that didn't really change a lot
and I know why that is.
It is because here we are actually supposed to
have a header element first.
Alright? And so that class should go there.
So this is a little bit just of semantic HTML right here
or let's say a semantic markup where the header
element is a bit better suited here
than simply having the H-1.
And here we have some problem.
Let's maybe change something here very quickly.
So here we have this 12 rim of width.
Let's change that to four.
So that's a bit better, even though it's not perfect yet
because of course this page is very narrow, but nevermind,
we will fix that in a moment.
Next up here, let's add the class of menu.
And again, that's class name.
And then just a simple string.
So menu.
And here, since we were talking about semantic markup
let's actually use the main tag, so the main HTML element
and then of course we need to close it correctly as well.
Ah, beautiful.
So you see that.
Now we get this nice styling here on the menu.
Okay, next up we have this class name here
which will just be footer.
All right, so let's see what we get here
we have this weird styling applied to these titles
which is not supposed to be happening.
And so let's just make them H3 not H2.
Yep. And so here we have the footer.
Nice. So with this, we actually have some styling applied
to our application right now.
And as I mentioned, we are getting these styles now
from this external CSS style sheet, which remember we
simply imported here using this import syntax
which will make web pack import the styles
into our application.
Then here, remember that we used class name and not class
because class is a reserved keyword in JavaScript already.
And by the way, there are a few more JSX rules like this
which we will talk about a little bit later in this section.
For now, just notice that the styles that we included here
are global styles, so they're not scoped
to each particular component, and that's very easy to show.
For example, we could add the header class also here.
And while that looks kind of the same
let's try something else.
Let's add maybe the footer class also to the header.
Yeah. And again, it doesn't change a lot, but if
we inspect the element here, yeah, so right here, then
of course both of these classes here.
So all of these styles will be applied to this same element
and in the end to the same component.
And so again, each component does not really contain
its own styles but simply uses the global styles
that are in index.CSS.
And this works fine for small apps,
but we will also use something called styled components
later in another project.
And so then we will have CSS that really only belongs
to one single component.