React 觀念
So now that we already know what props are
and how we use them in practice, let's quickly review them
and even learn some important additional things about props.
So as we just learned, we use props in React to pass data
from parent components to child components.
So essentially to pass information down the component tree.
This means that essentially we use props to communicate
between parent and child components.
Therefore, props are an essential React tool
to configure and also to customize components.
So we can imagine props as settings that we
can use to make a parent component control how
its child component should look like and how it should work.
So in that regard, props are just
like arguments passed to regular JavaScript functions.
Also, we can pass anything into JavaScript functions, right?
And so the same is actually true for props.
So we can pass any type of value as a prop.
So we can pass single values, array objects, functions
and even other React components, which is a really
powerful technique that we will explore a bit later.
So those are the fundamentals of props in React
but now let's go dig a little bit deeper.
But before we do that, we need to first take a step back.
So at this point of the course, we have already learned
about the components appearance and its logic,
so by writing both JSX
and JavaScript logic inside components.
Now, I've also been saying since the beginning
of the course that React renders a component based
on its current data and that UI will always be kept in sync
with that data, right?
But now it's time to get a bit more specific
about what that data actually is.
So this data that React users to render a component is made
out of props and state
and actually there are even more types of data
but what matters for now are props and state.
Now, state is basically internal component data
that can be updated by the component's logic,
so by the component itself, while props
on the other hand is data that is coming
from the parent component,
so from the outside basically.
So it's the parent component who owns that data
and so therefore it cannot be modified
by the child component.
Instead, props can only be updated
by the parent component itself.
And this brings us to one of the few strict rules
that React gives us, which is that props are immutable.
So they cannot be changed, they are read-only.
And if at any point you feel like you need to mutate props
actually what you need is state
because state is for data that changes over time
as we will learn soon.
But why is that actually?
Why are props immutable in React?
Well, to start, props are just an object.
Therefore, if you change the props object in your component
you would also affect the parent component
because that's just how objects work in JavaScript.
So when you copy an object and mutate the copy,
the original object will also be mutated.
Now, if you change an object that is located
outside of the component function,
that function has then created a so-called side effect.
So in general,
a side effect happens whenever you change some
data that's located outside of the current function.
React, however, is all about pure functions,
so functions without side effects,
at least when it's about a components data.
So components have to be pure in terms of their
props and state, because this allows React to
optimize your application and it avoids some strange
bugs that can appear when you manipulate external data.
And in fact, we can extend this idea of immutability
to React development in general.
So a component should never mutate any data that
we write outside of its function scope
like in this example here.
And now to finish, it's important to understand
that React uses a so-called one-way data flow.
Now, what does that have to do with props?
Well, in simple terms, one-way data flow means that
in React applications, data can only be passed from parent
to child components, which happens by using props.
So in other words, data can flow from parents to children
but never the opposite way.
And therefore we have a one way data flow, so only from top
to bottom of the component tree.
Now, this may sound obvious to you,
but other frameworks such as Angular actually employ
a two-way data flow.
So if you know one of those frameworks already
this might be quite a change for you.
But there is actually a reason or multiple reasons why
React uses a one way data flow like this.
The first is that it makes applications way
more predictable and way easier to understand
for developers because it is just a lot easier
to understand where the data is coming from
if it only flows in one direction.
In a similar vein,
it makes applications way easier to debug,
again because we have way more control over the data
and we understand exactly how that data flows around.
And finally, two-way data binding is usually less efficient
so it's less performant to implement.
Okay, so that sounds great, but you might be wondering,
"What if I actually wanted to pass some data, for example
some state, up to a parent component?"
Well, there is actually a very clever way to do that
but as so often we will learn about that a bit later.
And actually in the next section, to be specific,
so it's not far away.
There are just so many moving pieces
in learning a whole library like React,
that of course you can't learn it all at once,
but trust me, you will get there
and then everything will fall nicely into place at the end.