React 觀念
Many beginners get quite confused
when they start using JSX in their own code.
And in fact, JSX can be a bit tricky to understand
and to master.
But that's why I am here by your site,
helping you along the way.
And so let's quickly check out the rules of how JSX works.
Now, there are some general JSX rules
and there are some rules
about how JSX is different from HTML.
And starting with the general rules,
you should know that JSX works essentially just like HTML.
So it has a very similar syntax.
However, we can enter a JavaScript mode
by using curly braces anywhere in a markup
where a value, like text or an attribute is expected.
Now into this JavaScript mode,
we can place any JavaScript expression.
So anything that produces a value.
So we can reference variables, create arrays or objects,
we can loop over array using the map method
or we can use operators,
like the ternary operator,
what's not allowed, our statements.
So in JSX, you cannot use things like an if/else statement,
for loops, a switch or any other statement.
Now, what's super important to understand
is that a piece of JSX produces a JavaScript expression.
Or in other words,
a piece of JSX is just like any other JavaScript expression.
And this makes sense because we already learned
that JSX is simply converted
to a create element function call,
which is in fact also an expression.
Now, this fact has two important implications.
First, it means that we can place other pieces
of JSX inside the curly braces.
So inside the JavaScript note.
And again, this is only possible
because we can put any JavaScript expression
inside those curly braces
and that includes the expressions produced by JSX.
The second implication of the fact
that JSX produces an expression
is that we can write JSX anywhere inside a component.
For example, we can assign a piece of JSX
to a variable like in this code snippet.
We can also use it inside in if/else statement,
pass it into functions and many other things.
Finally, a piece of JSX can only have one root element.
So basically, one parent element.
If you need more than that, for example,
when you need to return two elements from a component,
you can use something called a React Fragment,
which we will talk about later.
Okay, and now let's see the differences
between JSX and regular HTML.
Now, I will actually not go through this entire list here
at this point because these are just some very simple,
straightforward rules,
which are best explored by using code.
But I still wanted to include this list
in this slide here, so that you can keep it
as a reference when you download these slides.
So again, we will encounter these rules
as we keep writing code,
which is exactly what we're gonna do now.