Rendering lists is one of the most common things
that we do in basically all React applications.
You will probably do it like 100 times
throughout this course
and so let's now learn how to render lists in React.
But first of all, what do we actually mean
by rendering lists?
Well, basically rendering a list is when we have an array
and we want to create one component
for each element of the array.
So for example, here we have all starter data, remember?
So here we have an array of these objects
where each object is one pizza.
And so as you can imagine,
now we want to basically render this list.
So basically we want to take this array,
and for each of these pizza objects,
we want to automatically create one pizza component here
in our user interface.
So instead of calling or of using here
the pizza component manually one by one,
we want to do it all at once dynamically.
So if we have like four pizzas in the array,
then we want four components to be rendered.
But if we have like six or 10,
then we want 10 components to show up here in our app.
Okay, so let's now learn how to do this.
Now, the beauty of React is that for many things,
all we need really is the JavaScript knowledge
that we already have.
So for example, for rendering lists,
there's nothing new about React that we need to learn.
So it doesn't give us like a list element that we can use
or something like this.
All we need is the JavaScript knowledge
that we already have.
And in this case, all we need is the map method.
So let me show you how after all this talk.
So let's create a new diff here
and later we will convert this to an actual list element
but let's just start out with any element here.
It doesn't really matter which one.
And for starters, let's also comment out this code
right here and maybe you noticed here by the way,
that a comment in JSX is simply again
entering JavaScript mode so with these curly braces
and then this is just a JavaScript comment.
So this is one of the rules of JSX that was actually
in one of the slides
or actually in the only slide in the previous lecture.
So if you read that, then you're already familiar with this.
But anyway, let's now render our pizza list.
Let's remember, yeah, it's called pizza data.
So let's enter JavaScript mode here
and then let's take our pizza data,
which remember is just an array.
And then let's map over it.
So at map, we basically loop over this array
and create a brand new array.
So in this pizza data, each element is a pizza.
So let's do this and what we want in this new array,
so in the new array that will be the result of map
is for each pizza, a pizza component.
And now we can simply pass all of these props
in dynamically here.
Let's first close it like this.
So we can now say pizza. and I think it is name,
but let's check.
Yeah, so we have name, ingredients, price, photo data
and even this other property.
So if I give it a save right now,
we should already see the six components over there
and indeed, beautiful.
There they are.
They're missing here the image and the prices I guess.
But in principle, it's already working.
So you see here that we now get these console.logs here
for each of the pizzas, exactly what the names we have here.
And so now we are effectively already rendering a list.
So a list based on this pizza data.
Now we could keep going here
and basically add another property now
for the photo name for example.
So we can do pizza.photoname and so on and so forth.
But usually this is not how we do it.
Usually what we do is to pass in the entire object
into the more specific component,
so that's pizza in this case,
and then inside of that component, we would then
take the information that we want out of the object.
So let's now change the way we pass props into this pizza
and simply pass pizza and let's maybe say pizza object
just to make it slightly less confusing
and then or JavaScript mode
and then the current pizza object.
All right and now it all breaks here
because we need to adapt, of course, our pizza.
So now here we have props.pizzaobject.photoname, right?
And so let's paste this here everywhere
and here and here and here.
And a bit later we will make our lives a bit easier
with some additional techniques.
But for now, let's roll with this.
And there you have it.
There you have a list of all the pizzas
based on our pizza data array.
Let's just just get rid of this,
and of course, if we now remove something from here,
then that last pizza over there is going to disappear.
You see but let's put it back and yeah, there it is.
Now notice how we have like an error here in the console.
So let's scroll up a little bit and see what we get.
So we have this warning saying that each child
in a list should have a unique key property.
So basically what this means is that each time we render
a list like this.
Where is it?
Yeah so each time we render a list with the map method,
each of the items that gets rendered
needs a unique key property.
So key is basically a prop that is internal to React,
which it needs in order for some performance optimizations
and for now, it's not really important what that means
as we will learn later what exactly this K property is
and what it does.
For now, what matters is that we pass something here
that is unique to each element.
So to each pizza in this case, and that is the name.
So the name in this example is always unique.
So we can use that one as the unique key
and so then the warning here is gone.
Okay now next, what I want to do is to convert this here
from a simple diff to a UL, so an unordered list.
And then each of these pizzas themselves
should be a list element or list item, so an LI.
So it's very important that we write semantic markup
like this, which many courses somehow overlook
but I believe it's quite important.
And here we are also missing an important class name
to finally apply some more styling here,
which is just pizzas
and so this then puts the pizzas like nicely
in this grid and makes this look even nicer.
So I'm really happy here with this design like this.
And it's already starting to look like very familiar
to what we have here, right.
We have just missing this button.
The text here is a bit different, and we have
some special styling here when the pizza is sold out
and so we will actually talk about this here pretty soon.
But for now, let's quickly review what we did
in this lecture
and so that is fundamentally this part right here.
So the goal was to render one pizza element
for each of the objects that are inside
the pizza data array.
And the way we do that in React is by simply using
the map method on this array,
and in case you're not entirely sure
what the map method does, please go back
to the the previous section where I will introduce you
to all the most important array methods
that we use all the time.
And this one here is probably the most important.
So it will create a new array,
and in this array, in each position,
there will be a new pizza component.
And into each of these pizza components,
we pass as a prop the current pizza object, right.
So we then receive that here as a prop, and from there,
we read all the data that we are interested in.
All right, now of course, we could also not even have
this component.
Let me quickly show that to you as well.
So let's copy this
and well then can simply replace it here, paste that there.
And then of course, we need to get rid of all this.
So I'm just replacing all of them at the same time
and please don't follow this code here.
So you don't need to do this.
I just want to show you that we could have done it also
without like the intermediary component.
So all that matters here is that we return some JSX.
So we can directly write a JSX here
but usually what we do is to place that JSX
in another component.
So let's go back and there we go.
Now, you might have thought maybe that here we use
a for each because it sounds a bit more logical.
Like maybe we wanted to render one pizza for each of these
but that wouldn't really work.
Let's try that and you see that then nothing happened.
And so that's because here inside this UL
we actually need some JSX.
And the only way we get that JSX is by creating a new array.
And so that's what MAP does.
So it creates a new array, which will, in this case,
contain these six pizzas.
And so then here we will have this array
with all these pizzas and then React knows
how to render that.
Okay, so very, very important technique.
Make sure that you memorize this
or if you don't want to memorize, don't worry,
because you will do this dozens of time
throughout the course.