So, let's check out how we can do the same thing
with the ternary operator.
So, instead of the end operator here,
let's now use the ternary operator
to do conditional rendering.
And again, in case you are not familiar
with this ternary operator,
please go check out the previous section
with the review of JavaScript needed for React.
So, the ternary operator has three parts,
and the first part is a condition
and if this condition is true, then the result
of the operation will be this second part of the operator,
which right now is all of this, right?
But then the ternary operator also needs a third part,
which is basically like the else branch.
And so, if we want to reproduce the same thing
we had before, here we can just write no.
So give it a safe and you see we get
exactly the same result as before.
So again, the ternary operator has three parts.
So, first a condition, and if this is true,
then this first branch here will become the result
of the operation.
So, of using the operator.
But if it's false, then this last part here,
so this third part, will become the result.
And so, that's what is rendered then in this case.
Let's check that out and indeed, that's what happens.
Now, the advantage of using the turn operator is that
then we can display some alternative.
So let's write some more JSX here
and let's say, "We're still working on our menu.
Please come back later," for example.
So, then we get this.
So, this is, in some situations,
a bit nicer than simply displaying nothing.
But let's go back and here we go.
So, you might be wondering why we cannot simply use
an if-else statement right here.
Well, the reason is, once again,
because of what we learned in the lecture on the rules
of JSX, which is that inside this JavaScript mode,
we cannot write any JavaScript.
What we need to do here is to write something
that actually produces a value
and an if-else statement does not produce a value.
So, let's just experiment something fictional.
So, let's say we wrote,
"If num pizzas greater than zero then" this.
So let's try that.
But yeah, that's not really going to happen.
And we even get this big error here
and it simply says, "Unexpected token."
Well, that's all it says.
And yeah, the reason here is
that doing this does not produce a value.
And so it's the same as just having this
in the end now, right?
So, the ternary operator, when used like this,
is really nice and I do greatly prefer it
over just the end operator that we were using.
And so let's go back down here and also replace it
in this situation here.
So, let's replace that here.
And then also, let's print an alternative here.
So, another piece of JSX, we're happy to welcome you
between, let's just grab this from here.
So here we have the open hour, okay?
Let's change it again to 20 and yeah, nice.
So, ternary operator is a really important tool
in your React toolbox.
And once again, we are just using JavaScript here.
There's nothing React-specific that you need to learn
or to memorize in order to do conditional rendering.
It's all already part of the JavaScript language.
You just need to know that this is how you use it.
So basically, inside these curly braces
to enter JavaScript mode and then, well then,
you just use the operator just like you would do
in vanilla JavaScript.