The third way
in which we can conditionally render some JSX
or some component is by using multiple returns.
So, up until this point, all our components
only ever had exactly one return keyword, right?
But there is nothing stopping us
from adding another return keyword based on some condition.
So, of course each component
still can only return one block of JSX,
but that return can depend on a condition.
So, in other words, we can do for example this.
So, right here, we are outside of JSX,
so we are simply inside the component,
and so here we can write any JavaScript we want.
So, we can now easily use the if keywords
so we can say if is not open, then return,
for example, this message right here.
So, this JSX, so paste that here and that's actually it.
So, if the restaurant is not open
then this will be returned.
But if it is opened, then all of this here is not executed,
and then our normal return will simply be executed.
What's important here is that these two returns
cannot happen at the same time,
but that's right now in short here,
so let's again put it to 20.
And so now we get this, so exactly this message right here.
So, it's not coming from here,
so we could replace this, but I will leave it here,
and I will explain in a second why.
But anyway, now this is actually coming from here,
and we could of course do anything here,
just to make sure it is really coming from there.
And yeah, now the problem in this case
is that we are now no longer rendering
the footer element around this p,
so if we wanted to do the exact same thing,
we would also have to copy the footer here, right?
Otherwise the footer would only be rendered
in case the restaurant is open.
But if not, then no footer would exist.
So, this is actually, in this case,
not what we want all right?
So, usually this early return, like we did here,
is more useful when we want
to render entire components conditionally
but not just some pieces of JSX.
So let's try something else here maybe,
and what I'm looking for is actually this pizza component.
So, remember how the pizza has a property of soldOut.
So we can see that here in the props.
So, each pizza receives this pizza object now as a prop
and then we have soldOut.
So what we can do here as an early return is to say
if props.pizza object.soldOut, then return nothing.
And so with this then the pizza that is sold out
will not appear on the user interface,
and indeed there was one pizza.
So, that's this one here, Pizza Salamino,
and that's no longer here now,
and so that's because here we have this early return.
So that's sometimes a pretty common technique
that we can use, which is to simply return null,
so nothing in case there is a certain condition that's true,
and so in this case, this can be quite useful.
So for now, let's leave this here, even though later,
we will do something even nicer with this property.
So, as a conclusion
of these three lectures on conditional rendering
my recommendation is to use the return operator whenever
you need to return some piece of JSX based on a condition.
So, just for example, like this here.
So, this we are going to use all the time
but also sometimes you just want to do something like this,
so you want to return something entirely different
no matter if that's nothing
or if that's just some other component.
So for example, we could also say here
something that doesn't make any sense
but let's just try this.
So, we could do this.
So in case it's sold out,
we returned the header in this place.
So, again here that makes no sense at all
but that would be a possibility,
although not a very good one.
So, throughout this course you will learn
which of these options is the best
simply by practicing and using them
in different situations over and over again.