Now to practice the concept of components
and using props just a little bit more,
let's extract parts of the footer into a new component.
So the JSX here inside the footer component
is getting a little bit too long,
and so I got the idea of taking this part here
and extracting it into its own component.
So let's grab all of this and cut it,
and then we're simply going to create a new component.
So we write function, let's call it order,
and then all we have to do
is to just return that JSX that we just created.
All right, now, Prettier did not format this
because actually our code is wrong now,
because here we don't have anything
as the first value in the ternary operator,
and so let's immediately fix that.
So instead of that JSX that we had here before,
now what we want is to simply render the order component.
So order, and that's actually it.
Now, React is still not happy with us
and that's because down here,
close hour is, of course, no longer defined.
And it makes sense because close hour is only defined here
inside the footer component,
but now the JSX that we had here before is gone
and it is in the order component.
So how do we give this order component access
to this value right here?
And I hope that you guessed
that the answer is by using props.
So as we see here, props is actually also quite similar
to passing arguments into functions.
So all we have to do here is to create a prop.
So let's say open hour,
so we can just give it exactly the same name
as the variable.
So it doesn't have to be like this, but it can.
And so then here, let's receive props as a parameter,
and then we can simply read close hour from there.
And again, this works because we made the prop here
exactly the same name as the variable.
So if it was prop hours, then here, of course,
we would also have to use that, right?
But what matters is that it's working just fine.
Well, actually we are not seeing the result there,
so let's set it back to 12.
And so now, yeah, we're getting the order component
rendered there.
However, we see that here is a problem,
and I notice that's because I actually created a bug.
So here we have close hours,
but what we passed in is actually open hours.
So we're not interested in open but in close.
So this should be close hour, and here, close hour,
and here, also close hour as we had before.
And so now that's fixed, and so that's actually it.
So this is how we take a piece of JSX
when the JSX in a component is getting a little bit too big
and simply extract it into its own component.
And then if that JSX depends on some value
that was in the parent component, so like this close hour,
then we simply pass it in as a prop.
And so this is something that we're going to do all the time
when we build our React applications.
So not always do we have all the components figured out
in the beginning, but instead we start building them,
and then when they get to big, we can decide to extract
part of them into just another component.
And now, since this was the last component
that we're going to create in this project,
I invite you to take a pen and a paper
and to draw out the entire componentry
that we just built here.
So I think that's going to be a nice small exercise
for you to get a better hold
of how all the components in this application work together,
and yeah, really understand the structure
that we built here for this small project.
And then once you're done with that,
you can just simply move on to the next lecture.