Let's now learn what a React Fragment is
and when exactly we might need one.
So let's actually come here to the final version
of the application so that I can show you
that we are actually still missing something
and that's this sentence right here.
So there's a paragraph of text right here
that I'm just going to copy now
and you can maybe pause the video and type it,
or you can just type something shorter.
So let's for now place that paragraph here,
give it a save, and yeah, then it looks exactly the same.
But now what if we have no pizzas at all?
So in this case,
well, then we actually don't want to show this,
so this sentence right here, we only want this one,
so the one that's coming here
from our conditional rendering.
So let's put that back.
And now what that means is that we only want
to render this paragraph here in this situation.
So let's grab that paragraph and place that here,
because again we want to render this paragraph
and this UL in this case,
but immediately React starts yelling at us.
So JSX expressions must have one parent element.
And so this is exactly what we learned
in the Rules of JSX lecture.
So a piece of JSX, no matter where it is defined
can only have in fact one root element.
And this has happened to us before
and the way we always solve this
was by simply wrapping everything
in a div or some other component, so let's try that.
You don't have to do this.
And this is just to show you
that this will then actually mess up our formatting here.
So this is actually not really what we want.
We do not want to render one element
which contains these two,
but we really want to render these two elements here,
so these two elements in separate
without having one element as a parent of these two, right.
And so this is the case in which we need a React Fragment.
So a React Fragment basically lets us group some elements
without leaving any trace in the HTML tree, so in the DOM.
So it looks like here we need a React Fragment
and that's very easy.
All we have to do is to basically delete everything here
just like this and so this is now a fragment.
So let's save, and then we are back to what we had before.
So now let's then inspect the DOM tree,
as I was saying, just to show you
that actually this didn't create any new element at all.
So here we have the header
and I see we still have that footer class there.
Of course, let's get rid of that.
All right.
So we have our container, then we have the menu,
then we have the h2, so this one, and then exactly,
we have the paragraph and the UL, but in separate,
so not wrapped in anything.
So this is completely invisible here
and it's exactly what we were looking for.
And that's it, that's all a React Fragment is
and it's all that it does.
Now, sometimes we need to add a key to a React Fragment,
so, for example, when we are using it to render a list
and so then we need to actually write it
in a slightly different way.
So first, let's make sure that we have React imported
and we do, so it's right here
and so we can write React.Fragment.
And then down here we need to close that React.Fragment
and so then the result is exactly the same.
But if we need it, then here we could add a key
of just anything.
All right, now we don't need a key,
so we can just go for the short version,
which is of course a lot nicer, all right.
Let's try maybe something else.
Let's say that here, we actually didn't want this container,
so maybe we just needed all our elements
right here directly in the root.
So basically what we wanted in this case
is the app component to return three components,
so these three elements made out of these three components.
And so then that would be very simple.
Now, in our case,
it's of course going to mess up the formatting
because then we are missing the container class,
but just as an example,
this is what it would look like in the end.
So we would have our root
with immediately these three as direct children.
But let's put everything back.
And yeah, I think that's all
that you need to know about React Fragments.
It's a very simple concept,
which basically allows us to have more
than just one element inside a piece of JSX.