So, in this section,
we will start to learn about events and state
by building a very simple components
where we can navigate through a few steps.
And so let's now, in this lecture,
start by building out the static part of that component.
Now, in order to build that component,
we will actually create a brand new project
using Create-React-App.
So if you're on Windows,
go ahead and open up your command prompt.
And if you're on a Mac, then just open your terminal.
And remember that in the terminal,
you're always in a folder.
So you can see what folder that is here
in your command prompt.
And then from there, just navigate to the folder
where you want to create your new projects.
And for me, that is, again, the desktop.
So remember that you can see all the folders
that you can navigate to from here.
So I am here in this home folder, basically.
And so I can navigate to any one of these.
And so that's what I'm going to do with cd.
And just by the way, again, on Windows
that's dir instead of ls.
But anyway, I will now navigate to the desktop.
And so now here, let's create our new project.
So that's npx Create-React-App and now here,
remember to lock in the version number five
just so we are all building the same thing here.
So using the same versions.
And then I will simply name this project here, steps.
So then hit enter
and then Create-React-App is doing its thing.
And in the meantime, let's actually check out the component
that we are going to build.
So that's this one right here.
So it's basically this component where we have
these three steps.
And as I said in the beginning, we can basically navigate
through them by clicking here on these buttons.
So when we click next, we go to step number two.
And so then we get apply to jobs.
So first we had learn react, then apply to jobs
and then invest all your new income.
So we can click this buttons here
so we have some interactivity here
and we can then also close and open up this component again.
All right, so again, in this lecture, we will start
by building out the static part of this component.
So just the component basically without any interactivity.
So just writing the JSX.
But anyway, Create-React-App has now finished.
I will just quickly again rename the folder here
and then let's drag and drop it here onto VS code.
And as always, you can also open it right here.
Okay, so let's clean up our starter files a little bit.
And in fact, I will delete almost everything here.
So we will just leave app.js and index.js
so all of them can go to the trash.
And now let's open up index.js.
Now, this time we will actually not write all
of this here again by hand
because now you already know how that works.
And so we can basically keep the code here
that Create-React-App put there for us.
We just need to get rid of this part
and also of this import.
Now we also got rid of the index.css file.
So this import right now doesn't work
but I do actually have a CSS file in the starter files.
So let's open up the files that we downloaded
in the beginning.
Then here in the steps starter files, we have these two.
So let's copy them.
And then in steps, let's place them here in the source.
And then let's also just move this vanilla.HTML
into the public.
So we're going to check out later what that is.
Okay, then going back here
notice how we are importing this app from this file app.js.
And so that's this one.
But here, let's clean everything.
And let's once again start from scratch
by creating a new component.
And as always, that component will be the app component.
So function app and so you see that usually we use
a component called app as the root component
of our application.
So basically as the component that is the parent component
of all the other components.
Let's just return something here.
Hello React.
And finally all we have to do is to export this function
from here.
So export default, so that now index.js can import it here
and render it into the dom.
So just again, like we wrote before by hand
but now we will just leave the code here.
Of course, we don't always have to do everything manually.
Now let's come here to our integrated VS code terminal.
So just by clicking here, and as you see
this is already automatically in our project folder
or at least it should be.
So now there's no need to navigate anywhere.
All we need to do to start a project is to run NPM start.
So this will then automatically open up a new browser tab.
And yeah, here it is.
So this is the content of our app.js.
Alright, just giving ourselves a bit more space here.
And so you notice that the file name here
app.js is exactly the name of the component.
And so this is going to be a pattern
that we will see throughout the course.
But anyway, let's not together write the JSX here
so that we end up with something like this again
just without the interactivity.
So we actually start with a div
that has the class name of steps.
And if you're interested in the CSS, then of course
make sure to check out the CSS file that we just included.
And now this div here has three child elements
so it has a div with the class of numbers.
And so here we will have these numbers.
1, 2, 3.
And now to make this a bit faster, I will just
duplicate the code here, which as I explained to you before
we can simply do with this command here.
So copy line down, I think I actually personalized
this command right here.
So for you, it's probably another one, but you
should see which one it is right here.
And if you want, you can also personalize all your shortcuts
right here.
Okay. But anyway, let's now move on to the next one.
And here we actually want a paragraph,
so a paragraph with the class name of message.
Let's just use a placeholder for now.
And then finally a div again for the buttons.
So here we then will have one button element.
Let's see.
Yeah, this first one says previous
and then another one which says next.
So here basically we have the numbers
then the message and the buttons.
And so what we have here is already looking
pretty close to that.
Now the buttons here are not purple like in the demo
and that's because we will later have another button
which should not have that background color.
And so let's add those stylings here directly
to the two buttons.
And so with this, we can then also practice again
how we add styles to some individual JSX elements.
So remember that we do that by passing in basically
the style prop into this element.
So then we enter JavaScript mode
and then here we can define our object of styles.
So background color
and here the color is 7950F2.
And also the text color, let's set it to white,
which is FFF, and it needs to be a string of course,
since again, this is just a JavaScript object.
Now, in case you're wondering why these colors
are so nicely highlighted, that's simply because I have
this extension called color highlight.
So a very popular one with 5 million installs.
And so if you want to replicate the way this looks
then you can just also install that.
But here, let's just copy all of this
to make it faster.
Next.
And yeah, that's looking pretty close.
All we are missing now is the highlight here
of the current step.
So here we are in step number one, and therefore
it's now highlighted with this purple color.
And for that we have yet another class name.
So class of active now okay, now finally, let's also
add the message here.
And those messages are actually in the CSS file
that I provided for you.
So I placed this JavaScript object here as a comment.
And so let's paste that out here outside of the component.
So this data doesn't depend on anything
that is inside the component.
And so it should be located outside
because otherwise each time that dysfunction here
is executed, this data, so this array will be created again
but we will learn all about that a bit later, of course.
So when objects are created
and when these functions are executed and so on.
So right now we are only learning really
how we use these react features
but not yet how they work behind the scenes.
So the mechanics of react are still a bit hidden to us.
We are only just learning how we use the different features.
So now we need this message here basically.
So the first element of the array right here
but we're not going to just copy it, right?
So we want to read it dynamically.
And so let's hear inside this component, define a variable
which will tell us which step we are currently in.
So let's do const step and let's just set it to one.
And by the way, it is this step here
that we will want to update later
as we click on these buttons.
But for now we are just building here the static part.
So we are just manually setting it to one.
So then let's write step and then the number of the step
and then let's read the value out of the array.
So that's messages at position step.
And we need to minus one here
because of course the array is zero based.
Alright? Ah, beautiful.
So if we now manually change it here to two
then that will then change the message here.
But what didn't change is that this step number two
was not marked as active.
So basically we need to now set the styles here
on these elements conditionally.
So if we just add the class name active to all of them
then they would always be active
but that's not what we want.
So we need to basically determine this string here
based on a condition.
So just like we learned in the previous section.
So let's enter JavaScript mode
so that we can write a template literal.
And so here we will then produce either active or nothing.
So let's enter the JavaScript mode basically
of the template, literal.
And then let's just ask if the step is greater or equal one.
And if so, then the result of the operation
should be the string of active.
And if not, well then just nothing.
So you see that this one here already became purple.
And so that's of course because two is greater than one.
Right let's add this to all of them.
But then here, of course we need to adapt and yeah,
nice, that's working.
So if we had number three
then all three of them would become active.
All right?
And let's just quickly check this out.
So you see now this one has the class of active
and these ones still have the class attribute
because we specified it here
but then there is no string to it.
So that's basically just this empty string that we return
in these two cases.
Great. So that's the static part of the application.
But of course, we want to now navigate here
by clicking on these buttons
so not changing manually here, this step variable, right?
And so that means that it's now time to learn
how we can handle the click events on these buttons.
And so that's what the next lecture
is going to be all about.