Handling events in React
is actually pretty straightforward
and so let's now learn how it's done.
So, as you can imagine,
we are not going to use the addEventListener here
because that is the imperative way of building UIs.
But here in React we use a more declarative approach.
So we do not manually select DOM elements,
and so therefore, we do also not use addEventListener.
Instead we use something similar
to the HTML inline event listener.
So instead in React we do something very similar
to the HTML inline event listener.
So basically we will directly listen
for the event right on the element where they will happen.
So right here on the button, for example, we can use the
onClick prop, and then we simply specify a function here.
So, the "Click" is the event name
and then we always prefix it with the "on".
And then we need to write it in camel case.
While in inline HTML
we would write it like this.
So like this, and then specifying a string.
So no camel case,
but this is not HTML it is JSX
and so it's slightly different
just as we learned before in the lecture
about the rules on JSX.
So, again, we will pass in here now a function
and that function will then be executed
whenever there is a click happening on this DOM element.
So in this case, on this button right here.
So, let's create a quick arrow function here.
And all I'm going to do now is to alert
something,
let's say "Previous", and this should already be working.
So if I click here now,
then yes, we get the alert
that is saying "Previous".
and we can do the same thing on the other button.
And here we say "Next".
And so of course then here we will get a different message.
And that's essentially it.
So this is how we handle events The React way.
no addEventListeners,
but instead we specify an event listener function
directly on the element using, in this case,
the onClick prop.
But it could be any other event as well,
So we can specify another event handler.
So let's use the onMouseEnter.
And so now here again, we need to specify a function
and it's really, really important to understand
that it is not a function call, but really a function.
So we cannot simply write,
alert,
"TEST", for example
because watch what happens now as I save.
So you see, immediately we got this "TEST" right here,
and not when a hover over the button.
So why is that?
Well, basically,
as soon as React initializes this component,
so when it first calls this app function,
it'll then see this code.
And so here we are calling alert
and so then, that's exactly what it does.
React will read this code
and then here it finds this function call.
And so it will immediately call this function.
But again, that's not what we want.
We want to basically define a callback function
which will be called at a later time.
And that later time is in this case
when the mouse enters this element.
So you see that now nothing happened,
but as soon as the mouse hovers here,
then this function is called.
So this function is called and, then we get our alert.
So again, very, very important, do not call a function here
but really specify a function value.
Somehow we got that again here,
but nevermind.
So this was just a test anyway, let's get rid of this.
This was just to show you that we can listen, of course,
to more than just a click event.
Now usually
we do not directly define the event handler function
right here in the onClick prop,
but instead we create a separate function
and then pass that function in here.
So let's do that now.
And, so usually we create those event handler functions
right here in the component.
So that's something new that we haven't done before,
but that's perfectly fine.
We can define any functions that we want
here, right inside the component body.
And let's call this one handlePrevious,
And this handle part here in the event handler function
is pretty standard in React development.
So you will see this all the time,
and so then you know immediately that this function
is an event handler function
that is probably being used somewhere
in the JSX of that component.
In this case, it's going to be used right here.
So, handlePrevious.
And what we want to do here, again for now,
is just to alert "Previous".
So if we click here now, that's going to work still.
Great. And once again, really, really important to notice
that here, we are just passing in the function value.
So we are not calling it,
because if we were calling it,
then again, we would immediately see that "Previous".
So React would then immediately run this code here
as it sees it.
All right.
But like this, we are only passing in the function.
Or of course, we could also do this.
But of course, that's very redundant.
So now we are back to just having a function here, right?
It's just a function that calls another one,
so that's not very effective.
But sometimes we will have to do something similar.
But for now, this is the way that makes sense.
And so let's now quickly create another one.
So again, this is usually the way we do it.
So creating a function which starts with handle,
and then we simply pass that function here
into the onClick prop or any other prop that we can use
to handle some other event.
All right, just to make sure that it works,
and indeed it does.
Great. So, this is how we handle events typically in React.
But of course,
now we actually want something meaningful to happen here.
And in particular,
we want to basically change this step value here, right?
And for that, we need something called state.
Now, we have touched on state many times already
but now it's time to really learn what state is
and then how we can use it in practice.