React 觀念
As we finish this first dive into state,
I want to share a few more important thoughts,
or ideas, about state, as well as some practical guidelines.
So, first of all,
there is one important technical detail
that you should be aware of, and this might seem obvious
but it's still worth mentioning.
So, what I'm talking about
is the fact that each component
really has, and manages, its own state.
So, even if we render the same component multiple times
on one page, each of these component instances
will operate independently from all the other ones.
So, in this example, the three counter components
all start with a piece of state called "Score,"
which is set initially to zero.
Then, if one of the buttons is clicked,
that increases the score by one for each click,
but only in that component.
The state in all the other components stays the same.
So, again, if we change the state in one of the components,
that won't affect the other components at all.
And so, the same thing, of course,
is going to happen when we click one of the other buttons,
or even when one of the components is removed
from the UI entirely.
So, state really is isolated inside of each component.
Now, if we analyze everything that we just learned
about state, we can come to the conclusion
that we can basically think of the entire application view,
so, the entire user interface, as a function of state.
Or, in other words, the entire UI
is always a representation of all the current states
in all components.
And, taking this idea even one step further,
a React application is fundamentally all about
changing state over time, and of course,
also, correctly displaying that state at all times.
And this is really what the declarative approach
to building user interfaces is all about.
So, instead of viewing a UI as explicit DOM manipulations,
with state, we now view a UI
as a reflection of data changing over time.
And, as you know by now, we describe
that reflection of data using state,
event handlers, and JSX.
So, we describe the UI, React does the rest.
Now, this might all sound a bit
philosophical at this point in your journey,
but trust me, as you become more and more experienced
in building React apps and working with state,
you will truly and deeply understand everything
I just said here.
Now, okay, and now to finish,
let me give you a few guidelines
on how to use state in practice.
So, practical guidelines is always
what students like the most,
and here, this also kind of serves as a summary
of state in general.
And these guidelines are for you to keep as a reference,
so, there is a lot of text here
that I will just quickly go over now.
So, first of all, you should create
a new state variable for any data
that a component should keep track of over time.
And the easy way of figuring this out
is to think of variables that need to change
at some point in the future.
So, if you're used to building apps in Vanilla JavaScript,
those would be variables defined
with "let" or with "var," or also an array, or object,
that you mutate over the applications lifecycle.
So, in React, you use state for those.
Another way of figuring out when you need state is this.
Whenever you want something in a component
to be dynamic, create a piece of state
related to that "thing," and then update the state
when the "thing" should change,
or, in other words, when you need it to be dynamic.
Now, since this "thing" is a bit abstract,
let's think of a modal window
that can be either open or closed.
So, for a modal window, we can create a state variable
called, "isOpen," that will keep track
of whether the model is currently open or not.
Then, when "isOpen" is true, we display the window
on the screen, and if it's false, we hide it.
Simple, right?
So, whenever you want to change
the way a component looks like,
or the data that it displays,
just update its state, which you usually do
inside an event handler function.
Now, when you're actually building your components,
it's gonna be useful to always imagine the components view,
so the component rendered on the screen, as a reflection
of state changing and evolving over time.
Finally, there is one common mistake
that many beginners make, which is to use state
for every single variable that you need in a component,
but that's really not necessary.
So, do not use state for variables
that should not trigger a re-render, okay?
Because that will just cause unnecessary re-renders
which can cause performance issues.
So, it's very common to need
some variables that are not state.
And so for those, you can just use
regular variables defined with "const."
But, we will come back to this in the next section.
All right, so this is my first set of guidelines
about state, which should be more than enough for now.
So, if you truly internalize these,
then building React applications in the future
should be a lot easier for you.
And, I say this because I really believe
that mastering state is the most difficult part
of learning React, but once you overcome this hurdle
and truly internalize when you need state
and how it all works,
it will unlock React development for you.
And so, that's why I spent so much time here
showing you how state works.