So with our project now installed,
let's start by building the static layout
of the application.
And as always, let's start by getting
these starter files
which in this case is just this CSS file.
So of course that we don't have to write any styles
ourselves.
Then place that here into source.
Now there will already be one
so just replace that
and since we're already here
we can get rid of all
the junk that we don't need.
So all of these,
so in the end
we just have app.js, index.CSS, and index.js.
Okay. Then just renaming
this here once again.
And then let's drag and drop it
onto the VS code icon.
Okay, so here we already have our files.
As always, we need to clean this one here
because we are importing some files that
we no longer have basically.
But that's it.
And once again, if you feel like it
you can actually delete all of this
and write the code yourself
just to practice how we can set
up this React app
from complete scratch.
But I will just leave this here
because in the end
when you build your own applications
you will always just leave
this here as well.
You're not always gonna write everything from scratch
but here actually you want to delete everything
and start from scratch.
So export
default
function app.
So this is usually always
the same as well here.
So you always have your app parent component
which will include all the other components.
And let's actually start with these other components.
So just the components
that we talked about
in the previous lecture.
So that's function,
Logo.
And now I will just quickly duplicate
this code here
just to make this a little bit faster.
So packing list.
And we also have our stats.
So these are the four big components
that we identified
in the last lecture,
remember that?
And so let's now write a little bit
of JSX for each of them
starting with the Logo.
So the logo is many times an image,
but in this case
we will just have a primary heading
and we will say far away.
And then let's add some emoji here.
Now the way we write emojis
on the Mac is by hitting
control command space bar.
And on windows, the shortcut is Windows
plus period.
So like this,
so the windows key and then plus this dot.
Alright, then here, let's use a palm tree.
So this one here
and then a bag.
Just like this.
And in case you can't get
these emojis to work
you can always just copy them
from the final files of this project.
Or you can of course just ignore them as well.
So these are just to make the design
a little bit nicer.
Okay, that's enough for the logo.
So we will just write some very simple
starter JSX here
for each component
as we are scaffolding basically this layout.
So here, let's just return
a div with the class of add-form.
And again, you can of course
explore the CSS file
and see all the CSS that I wrote
for these class names
that we are going to import here.
So in here later we will have
these form elements
like the select box,
the input box, and that button.
But for now we will just write the text.
So what do you need
for your trip?
And here we also had some emoji,
let's add that as well.
And it's actually already down here.
Okay.
And notice how eslint is complaining
that we are not using these variables here.
But of course we will do that soon
by including all of them here
in the global parent component.
So here in this app.
But again, let's leave that for later.
So we do that in the end.
For now, we just write the static part
of all the components.
And this one is the list.
So again, just like a placeholder there.
And let's make this one here
a footer element.
So remember how the stats is really
at the bottom of the page,
and so a footer seems like a good fit here.
So let's write You have
and then here in the end we will have a number.
So let's just use an X for now
items on your list
and you already packed
and then again, an X,
which is X percent of the total.
Then here we also had
some emoji
Like this other bag here.
And yeah,
I think this one was also formatted.
So let's use emphasize here.
So em.
And now with that,
let's come here to our app component
and use all of them here in our layout.
And if you want,
you can actually pass the video here
and do that as a challenge.
So just create one div element
with the class of app
and then include the four components
in there if you'd like.
So this
is how you do that.
So with the class of app
and then one by one,
one after the other
we just include them here.
So first a logo,
then the form.
So actually exactly
in the way that we define them in our code.
And by the way, in more real apps,
and also a bit later in the course,
we will start placing
each of these components here
into one individual file.
So we will then have one file called app js
for this component, one called logo js for this one
and so on and so forth.
But here, since we are still learning
I think it's easier to build all of them here
in the same file
because otherwise we are jumping
around all the times
through these files.
And so that then makes everything
a lot more confusing
especially when we get
into topics such as child to parent communication.
But yeah, more about that very soon.
So to finish the stats
and that's it.
So no component
is yellow here anymore
and so that means that we didn't forget any.
And yeah, with this we are done.
So let's open up our integrated terminal
like this.
And we are already in the correct folder.
So npm start
and let's wait for it.
Beautiful.
Well here it seems
we missed some class.
Let's make this smaller again.
All right.
And so this footer here needs the
class of stats.
Yeah, wonderful.
So this is what it's supposed to look like
and it looks exactly like our demo.
Well, except of course for these details right here
which we will take care of
starting in the next lecture.
So next up, we will start rendering
some static items here.
So we will not yet dynamically
add new items to the list
but we will render some static items
from an array here in the UI.