Remember how I said earlier how rendering lists is one
of the most common tasks in React development?
Well, this application is no exception.
And so let's now render the list of pecking items.
And first of all, let's go to our CSS file
because that's again where I pasted
this array of initial items.
So let's grab that.
We can also close index.js
and I will paste it here at the very top.
So you see that we have once again
an array with a few objects, and in this case
each object describes one item to be packed.
So each of them has an ID, a description, quantity,
NT OD packed property
which tells us whether this one has been packed or not.
So based on this
we will then display the item a little bit differently.
So here, well here we don't have any.
So here in the demo app.
So you see right now it's not packed, but if it is packed
then you see it is like strike through.
Now okay, so let's now take these items here and
render them as a list into our UI.
So as the name says
we're going to do that in the packing list.
So first of all, let's again use semantic HTML
and convert this diff into a UL.
So into a unordered list.
All right?
And then immediately here we enter JavaScript mode
because remember how we render lists in React?
Well, we simply use the map method that we already know
on the array.
So initial items, and later on we will, of course
then when we make this dynamic, use another array here.
But again, for now here, we just want to render something
so just to make this work.
Okay?
Then inside the map method
each of the elements will be, let's say an item.
All right? And then for each item
what we want to render is an item component.
So let's immediately write that here
and we will then create the item component in a minute.
So item, and then we passed in as a prop, the entire item.
So item and then item again, let's close this here.
So you see we have a lot of items here.
So the name of the component, the name of the prop,
and then here the object itself
which, remember, is the argument
of this callback function in each iteration over this array.
So nothing new here at this point, I hope.
So, a gift is a safe, but of course item is not defined.
So let's quickly take care of that.
And now here we need to accept the props, right?
So we can do it like this, remember, but even better
we can immediately destructure this
and then give it the name here
of the prop that we passed in, which is item.
And again, it could be anything.
It could be object like O, B, G, or X or anything.
But yeah, it's easier to just call it item here
because that's what it is.
It's just a packing item, so to say.
So here, this item should be now an LI element.
So a list item, because that's usually what direct children
of the UI or of the UL element should be.
And then just to start, just to see if it's working
let's simply render, I think it's called description.
Yes, that's it.
We'll just copy that actually.
So item dot description, give it a safe.
And there it is.
So we have passports and socks.
Now the styling here is a little bit off.
And the reason for that is
that here I actually did a mistake in the HTML.
So here let's actually create a diff, and then
it's this diff that is supposed to have the list class.
All right?
And the reason for that is that later on
we will have another element in here for these filters.
So we will have a diff for these two things down here.
All right.
So of course for me, that's easy to see now
because I already built the app beforehand.
But once you start building your apps on your own
there will be a lot more back and forth
which of course I cannot do here in this course
because then it will take just forever.
Okay, but anyway, let's now add some more here.
So we don't just want a description
we also want this icon here for the leading.
And later we will want this checkbox
but let's leave that for later actually.
So here, let's create a spin element.
So for the text, let's grab that, paste that here.
And then we also want the item dot.
Let's see, it's the item dot quantity exactly.
So item dot quantity.
And notice how sometimes prettier creates like
these empty strings here in our JSX
so many times this is not necessary.
So just get rid of that.
And now finally, we need delete button.
And for now, we won't attach any event handler here
but we will just place an icon here in the form of an emoji.
So maybe like that.
So this X right here.
And again, if you can't make this work
then you can just write the X like this or also like this.
So that would work as well.
Alright, so this has now been rendered here based
off this list.
And if we duplicate this and add something else here
like a charger, one charger, then there it is.
Now to finish, let's just mark one of them as packed.
Make this one true
so that we can add some additional styling here.
So we want to basically have some strike through there.
So that's simple stuff.
So let's come here to the item.
And here we will now conditionally add some styling.
So instead of conditionally adding a class here
I want to conditionally simply add some style.
So let's write style
and then it immediately enters JavaScript mode.
But now I will not immediately write the object
of CSS properties.
Instead, let's actually use the ary operator to
decide which object the style should actually receive.
So if item is packed, and here we don't really
need a condition because this is already a bullion.
So if it is packed
then we want an object which will contain some CSS
for the strike through, but if not,
so if the item is not packed,
then we will want to return this empty object.
And so then no styles are going to be applied.
So the CSS property that we're looking for
is called text decoration
and let's set it to line through like this.
And that worked quite nice.
All right, so let's try another one just for fun.
And yeah, immediately you see
that it gets strike through as well.
So this was yet another way
of using the turnaround operator to conditionally
set some style here.
So you see that we have a lot of freedom in React,
and again we simply use the JavaScript tools
that we already have for this kind of stuff.