Let's now learn about yet another
fundamental React concept which is controlled elements.
So let's take a look what they are
and how we use controlled elements
when working with forms in React.
So to start, what we need to understand is that by default
these input fields like this input and also this select
they maintain their own state inside the DOM.
So basically inside the HTML element itself.
Now this makes it hard to read their values
and it also leaves this state right here in the DOM
which for many reasons is not ideal.
So in React, we usually like to keep all this state
in just one central place.
So inside the React application and not inside the DOM.
And so in order to do that we use a technique
called controlled elements.
And so with this technique
it is React who controls and owns the state
of these input fields and no longer the DOM.
So since we want to now keep this data
inside the application, what that means
is that we need some state, right?
Because that form data of course changes over time
and we also want to maintain our application
in sync with it.
So in order to implement the controlled elements technique,
we follow three steps.
First we create a piece of state.
So let's start with that
and we will start here with this actual input element.
So with this text field right there.
So that field is for the item description.
And so we call it description.
And then as always, the setter function is set description.
And so then we use the use state hook.
So the use state function.
And then just like before, when VS code shows us
this auto completion here
make sure to click here or to hit enter
because that will then automatically include
so it will import this use state hook into this file.
So it will automatically include this line of code
and then for some reason that didn't work in your VS code
then make sure to just write this out by hand.
Now the default value
for this description can just be an empty string like this.
And so now we finished the first step of this technique.
So we have our piece of state
and now we use that state as a value of the input field.
So we come down here
to the input that we want React to control
and then we specify the value
which again is just a normal HTML field, alright?
So even in HTML you can use value
and then set it to something.
So we could also do just this.
Alright? But now we don't want that.
But instead we want our description.
Give it a save and there we go.
Let's just reload to get rid of this.
Yeah, here we get another warning
and it's already telling us the third step
that we need to take.
But for now, let's just see what happens if for example
here we write now test.
So you see now our input field has the value of our state.
Okay and now for the final step,
we of course now need to somehow connect this state
with the value that we are actually going to type there
right, because now the state will simply always stay empty
even if we type something here.
So React is now controlling this element
and always sets it to the description.
But the description right now always stays
at this empty string.
And so no matter what we do,
right now we cannot change this.
So what we need to do is to also on the same element
listen for the change event.
So that's using the on change prop.
And then here let's just define an inline function.
And this function receives the event that was fired off.
So in this case the change event.
And then here, let's just type the code
and I will explain what actually is happening here.
So set description, e.target.value.
All right and now if we type here,
first let's reload again,
now that we type here, it works.
And to make this even more visual
let's come back here to our dev tools.
And then here in the form,
we need even more space.
So you see that we have our state of test
and if we write here,
then notice how that state down there is updating
so we can write anything.
And then basically it will get synchronized
with this state that we have in our application.
And so now it is in fact React that owns the state
and that is controlling the state.
But now back here to this line of code.
So basically, whenever we type something in this field
the change event is fired off and we can react
to that event here with this on change event handler.
And so here we pass in the function
and the function as always receives the event.
And then on the event we read target
and e.target is basically this entire element.
And then this element.value is exactly
the text that we wrote.
And just to make this a bit more visual
'cause I know that this can a bit tricky to understand
so I want to make sure that you get it.
So let's log to the console, also this e.target maybe.
So as I delete now, this will fire off the change event.
And so then here we get e.target.
So as I hover it, you see that e.target
is the entire element indeed.
So watch what happens when I set
or when I log e.target.value.
So immediately that character that I just typed
was logged here to the console and not just the character,
but actually the entire value.
So now I write another one
and then now we get t then test and then test.
And so it is this value that each time
that we write something,
we set as the new state of the description, all right?
So just to drive this home,
each time that we type here, we set the state again.
So we set it to the string that is currently
in this input field, which will then re-render this view.
So this entire form here actually.
And so then that new state
of description will get placed there as the value.
So we always need both the value
and the change here on the input element.
Let's get rid of these curly braces here.
Yeah, just like this.
And just to see if we actually understood this
we now need to do the exact same thing
with the select element.
And if you want, you can actually pause the video
and try that as a challenge now.
So did you try that?
Well, if not, that's no problem at all
'cause we only did this once, so I understand
that it's still quite fresh and maybe confusing.
But anyway, we now also need to control this
select input element right here.
So that's going to be the quantity.
So let's call that state quantity.
And the setter function is set quantity.
And then again, use state and here the default value
we want it to be one, let's just say five for now
just so we see the effect in the UI.
Okay? So that's the first step.
Now the second step is to then define the value.
And so in this moment
React then starts controlling this element.
So value of quantity, well, what was that?
And you see, immediately we get this five.
Again with this, it's easier to see with our dev tools.
And yeah, so that's the five.
But of course if we change this now
then nothing will happen.
And so the reason for that is the same as before
because this value is now coming from our quantity state.
The DOM is no longer in charge of this value now,
the only thing that we now have to do
is to give this the ability to change itself.
So to basically update the state
each time that we change this value here.
So that's again using the on change handler.
And this function gets the current event.
And here we now do the exact same thing.
So we set quantity
based on e.target.value,
and by the way, this value is coming directly
from the option so right from here.
So that's why we need to set the value
here inside of each option.
Just to make sure, let's give it a save.
And there we go.
So you see it changed here and it also changed here.
Maybe you cannot really see this
as it's right at the bottom, but yeah, here is the 10.
Now what we can see immediately is that this is
a string while in the beginning when we first load the app,
let's try that, we get the five but without the quotes.
So now this is actually not a string, it's still a number.
And that's because we set the default here as a number.
But then as soon as we change this
for example to something, then here we get this string.
And so the reason for that is that here
e.target.value is always a string.
So before we place this value into the state
let's first convert it to a number.
And we can do that in a few different ways.
We can use the trick of using a plus
or we can be a bit more explicit,
for example using the number function.
So I prefer to doing it like this
which makes the code a bit more readable.
So give it a save and now
let's see, yeah, now we get a number
and of course still when we write here
that will also update the state down here.
And this was actually an excellent demo
to show you how useful really these dev tools are
because they allowed us to immediately spot
that we didn't have a number here by the string.
And so with this, we prevented a potential bug in our code.
Great, so hopefully you got that
so you understood exactly how that works.
So just to quickly recap,
the technique of controlled elements
basically consists of three steps.
So we define a piece of state, like this description here
then we use that piece of state
on the element that we want to control.
So we basically force the element to always take the value
of this state variable.
And then finally, of course
we need to update that state variable.
And we do so here with the on change handler
where we then set the description
to the current value of that input field.
And so with this, it is now this component.
So basically it's React who is in charge
of the state and really of the entire element.
And so that's the reason why this technique
is called controlled element.
Great. So that should be clear now.
And so let's now go ahead
and just quickly use these values here.
For example, we can create a new item object
so a description, quantity,
also we have the packed state in each of these items.
And by default of course the items should not be packed.
So let's set it to false here.
And then we also need an ID.
Now we could use some library here to generate that ID
but let's do it quick and dirty here, just with date.now.
So that should just work here in this case.
And then for now, we will just log it to the console.
Alright, let's go to our console, reload, all of this.
And actually let's also set it to one
which is the default that makes most sense.
So let's say that we need 10 shirts.
So hit enter and beautiful.
So we got our data here from the state
and it contains the description
it contains the quantity right here.
And then these other data that we just defined.
So some random ID and also this packed state set to false.
So with this we learned how we get now this data
out of the form.
Now just to finish, let's tweak
or handle submit function a little bit.
For example, when this happens, so when we submit the form
without any item, then still this works.
But the description is simply set to an empty string
which is already filed here.
However, we don't want this to happen.
So when there's no description here
then we shouldn't even be able to submit the form.
So that's simple enough.
We can just add like a guard clause here.
So we can say if there is no description,
then return immediately.
So basically then nothing's going to happen.
And again, this is some normal JavaScript,
nothing to do with React.
So you see nothing happens now, but if so
then we get our object.
And now finally, usually when we submit a form
then afterwards, once that submission is done
the form should go back to its initial state.
So let's also do that.
And for that we can simply use our setter functions, right?
And so that's the beauty
of React being in charge of the form
because now all we have to do is to update the state
and then this enables React to automatically keep this state
in sync with these form elements.
So basically that's the whole idea
of the controlled elements.
It's to allow React to keep our component state
in sync with the state of these dumb form elements.
But anyway, let's now do what I just said.
So setting the description back to its initial state
and set the quantity also back to its initial state.
So let's try that one more time.
And beautiful.
So that worked really, really nicely.
So this form is now a lot more real world.
It's back to its initial state.
And then down here we get the data.
But now what do we do with this data?
So at some point we will want to actually render
this new object here into the user interface.
So right here into this packing list, right?
So how do you think we will do that?
So how can we get this new state?
So basically this new object that we just created
into this list.
And just as a reminder, this list,
well, it's even easier to see in the componentry.
So we have the form, and here is the list.
So we want to get the data from this form
into this packing list right here.
So do you think that we could do that with props?
Well, not really, right?
Because these are sibling components.
The form is not a parent component of the packing list
and therefore we cannot pass props from form
into the packing list, right?
So because data can only flow down the tree
but not up or sideways.
So that was one of the important things
that we learned about props, remember that?
So therefore, if we cannot use props in a simple way
we need to find another solution.
And so this is where we really need to start
thinking more about state and state management.
But since this is so important as a React developer,
I created an entire separate section
about thinking in React and that section is up next.
So what we're gonna do now is to take a break
in this application and finish this section
with a brief summary and a challenge to consolidate
our knowledge about how to use state in React.
And then after that, we will come back
here to this application
and then we will really make it work.
So then we will be able to pass data
basically from the form into the list.
So that's going to be a lot of fun.
So make sure to finish this section
and then right afterwards,
let's keep going with this application.