So, moving on now, it's time to learn about
yet another fundamental concept that we use
all the time in React development.
And that is, "The Children Prop."
So we have finished this project right here,
and so we can basically finish this with control C.
And so now if we reload, you immediately see
that the connection has been lost, or you could also
simply have closed this VS Code window right here.
Okay? And now what I want to do in this lecture
and the next one as I introduce you to the children prop,
is to use the steps component that we built before.
So let's go back to the steps folder
and open it up in VS Code.
And again, you can do that in any way that you wish.
Now, I will now actually duplicate this file.
So this App.js in which we are working, I will copy
and then paste so that we can keep the first version
of the code that we wrote.
So calling this one, app version one.
And so now we can continue the work here in this file.
All right, so let's here come to the terminal
and then write, NPM start,
so that our project opens up again here in the browser.
All right, yeah, remember how we had actually
included the steps component here twice.
So let's remove or comment out one of them.
And so yeah, it's gone.
And as always, it's important to keep the console open
and maybe also the components tree.
But for now, let's stay on the console.
Okay, so the idea of this lecture
is to create a reusable button that we can use
instead of these two ones here.
And I want to add an emoji to these buttons here as well.
So let's take a look at where they are.
Yeah, so these two buttons here,
again, I now want to create a reusable button
that we use instead of these two.
So let's do that.
And we start by using the knowledge that we already have.
So let's say, function button.
And then all this will do
is to return a button element.
Which would also have this style here
and an onClick event handler.
So let's just copy these two here.
And also let's place some text here for now.
And so now the idea is
that we can pass in the background color,
the color, this onClick handler here, and the text as props.
So basically we want to accept some props here
for the text color.
So let's actually call that, text color.
So text color, background color,
the onClick handler, and also the text.
And so then here, let's use that button actually.
So before we keep working on the button
let's include it here immediately.
Let's right away delete this one.
Until we use our component
that we are building right now.
So let's say text color
should be this one here.
Or actually that's the background color, of course.
So BG color.
Then the text color,
this one should be FFF for white.
And then also the onClick prop.
And here we want to specify the handle previous function.
All right, then we close.
And also the text.
So here, this one said, previous.
And so now let's come to our button down here
and let's use these values here instead
of the hard-coded values.
So here, background color should be
the BG prop that we received.
And this one should be the text color
that we receive as a prop.
Then here we want onClick.
And here instead of just this generic text, we want,
again the text that we receive as a prop.
So let's give it a save, maybe reload even.
And, you see, as we use this button
it still works and looks exactly the same as before.
So let's then do the same thing with this one here.
So that's just copy and pasting this one
and then changing the onClick handler to, handle next.
And here, next.
Let's delete this button.
And so now with this
we have exactly the same functionality as we had before,
but we extracted these buttons that we had here
into a reusable button component
which right now accepts the text color, the background,
the onClick handler, and the text.
So passing all this data here as props
into this component should be pretty clear at this point.
So hopefully you understood exactly how that works
in previous lectures.
But anyway, let's now say that we also want to add an emoji.
So that's easy enough.
We just accept that here as a prop.
So, emoji.
And then let's add that here before the text.
And let's actually create a span element for this emoji.
So we create a span,
and then in there we put our emoji and then the text.
Okay, and then let's actually pass that emoji in.
And then let's here, maybe search for finger,
because I want this one here, for previous,
and then one finger pointing in the opposite direction
for next.
So that's this one.
Okay, give it a save and yeah, that worked nice.
So we have our emojis and our text,
and it works exactly as we specified our button down here.
But now let's say that I wanted this emoji here to be
on this left side, but the other emoji on the right side,
so that it would say next
and then pointing right to the right side.
So with this we kind of have a problem
because we already have so many props.
And so do you think that we should add yet another prop
basically for this direction?
Well, maybe not.
Maybe it's getting a little bit too crazy here
with all these props.
And we could keep adding more and more
to customize this button even more.
But I think at this point we should not add, for example,
this one here, like for the direction,
or for the side of the emoji,
and instead make use of the children prop that I mentioned
at the beginning of the video.
So instead of passing in this side here, this emoji,
and the text, which are basically the content
here of this button element,
what if we could simply pass the content
right into the button as well?
Or in other words, what if we could pass simply some JSX
into the component and then the component could use that JSX
and simply display it?
Well, we can actually do that in React.
So let's come up here, and notice how up until this point
all our components have always been self-closing.
So we never had, like this,
and then any content, and then closed the element.
So we never had this before, but in fact,
we can do exactly this.
So just like we do with HTML elements
where we have an opening tag,
then some content, and then a closing tag,
we can do exactly the same with React components.
So here, of course, I don't want that gibberish,
let's just put it back for now.
But basically what we want is to now here
write that span with the emoji.
So this one, and then, previous.
So this is exactly what we want
as the content of this button.
And if we were writing the button as a simple HTML button
this is what we would write.
So that's actually exactly what we did right down here
inside this button.
And so again,
we can do exactly the same thing with our React components.
So then we no longer need this, and this,
and let's then do the same thing here.
And so now comes that part
where we can very easily change the direction
or the side of the emoji, because we can simply write, next.
And then we put our emoji in the JSX on the right side.
So easy, right?
Well, I forgot to close our button here.
Okay. And now of course you don't see
any content here anymore,
because we no longer are passing in the text and the emoji.
And so now it's time to fix this.
So basically now it is time to give the button element
access to whatever content we wrote
into the opening tag and the closing tag.
And so that's where, finally,
the children prop comes into play.
So, the children prop is a prop that each React component
automatically receives.
And the value of the children prop is exactly
what is between the opening
and the closing tag of the component.
So let's remove all of this,
and then we simply need to write, children.
And so this really is a predefined keyword inside React.
And so as a final step, we can remove all of this
and simply use the children here.
Give it a save.
And there we go.
Beautiful.
So we have exactly what we set out to build.
We have the emoji here on the left side,
and here on the right side.
And of course we could do anything here.
So we could have even more emojis, even more elements.
And yeah, we could do really whatever we wanted.
Because, this content here of this element
would simply be passed as the children prop into the button.
And then here we use that children prop
and display all that content right here
inside this HTML button.
And with this, we just gained a brand new
and really, really important tool
that is used all the time in React.
It's actually one of its most useful features, I would say.
And the reason for that
is that it allows us to make our components truly reusable.
So with this children prop, I am now able to pass
whatever content I want into this button element.
And the button component doesn't even need to know
what content this is going to be.
All it does is to take the children,
so all the content and all the JSX that we just passed in,
and will simply then render it inside this button component.
And so because of that, we can think of the children prop
as a hole that can be filled by us passing in the content
into that component.
And if for some reason this seems strange, and don't worry,
we will use this children prop all the time,
all the way until the end of the course.
And now just to finish,
let's quickly recap what we just did here.
So, by using the children prop in the button component,
we basically left an empty hole
right in the component that we could then fill
with any JSX markup that the component receives as children.
But then the question is, how do we pass in these children?
Well, when we include the button component in some JSX,
instead of immediately closing the element,
we can write some more JSX into that element.
So just like we can write any HTML markup
inside other HTML elements, right?
So just like an HTML,
we can write anything that we want between the opening
and the closing tag of the component that we are using.
So, in this example, this piece of JSX creates the elements
that are then the children of the button component,
and they will then be accessible inside that button
as props.children.
So that's why we say it is the children prop.
So, basically, by defining child elements like this,
we are passing them into the button
just like we can pass in any other prop.
The difference is in the way
in which we specify other props.
So, the more regular props, and this one.
So by passing in content
between the opening and the closing tag of an element
we basically fill the hole that we left
in the component by using props.children
in the JSX of that button, so of that button component.
So, if we think about this,
the children prop is really an ideal way
of making reusable and configurable components.
Especially when it comes to the content of the component.
So for example, let's say that we wanted to create
a second, similar button,
but with some other emojis and text.
Well, now that we know about the children prop,
that is really easy.
All we have to do is to pass in some different JSX
and then the button gets completely different content.
And this technique is really, really useful
for building generic components that do not know
about their content before actually being used.
Like, for example, a model window, a generic slider,
or simply a generic button like the one that we just built.
So, again, this button component had absolutely no idea
about the content that it was receiving,
and therefore about the content that it was displaying.
And so this is really amazing
to create generic and reusable components.
So using the children prop like this
is really an extremely powerful technique
that you will need to master as you learn React.
But we will use this over and over again.
And so there will be plenty of time to practice,
and actually starting right in the next video.