Let's now build another reusable component
by leveraging the children prop once again.
And this time, let's say that we wanted
a component to display a message.
And so that message will always be this paragraph element.
It will also always contain this step here.
For example: in an H three element,
and then it will contain in an H three element.
So like this and then it will contain
something that we pass in.
So, some content such as this message right here.
So, let's once again, use the children prop
in order to create such a component.
So this component, I'm going to call "The Step Message."
So, step message.
And then I will for now, just copy this.
So, copy all of this.
And so as I said we want basically
always to display the current step,
and then here whatever content that we get.
So we need to receive two props here.
First is this step.
And then again, the children prop.
Which each component, remember,
automatically receives as soon
as we pass in some content between the opening
and the closing tag when we call.
So, when we use the component.
So, now we got the step, and then right after that step
let's simply display whatever children that we receive.
So, this part here is then that empty hole
that we talked about in the last lecture.
And this empty hole can then of course be filled
with whatever we pass in.
And again, whatever we pass in
between the opening and the closing tag of step message.
So, here in the button
that hole was basically all the content of the button.
So, the button here only displays
exactly what was passed in.
But here we will also, in addition,
always display this part.
So, the H three with the step itself.
Okay, and now let's...
Where is that?
Ah, yeah.
So, let's now replace this message right here
with a step message.
Now the step, of course,
we have to pass in just like any other prop.
Not span, step.
Okay.
And now here between the opening and closing tag
we basically define the children prop.
So this here will then become the children prop.
And if you get rid of all this,
then let's see what happens.
Well, nothing really happened.
Ah, of course.
I mean, we didn't really return anything here.
So we just wrote some JSX, but we didn't return it.
We also get some warning here
that the H three cannot be inside of a P.
So, let's then replace this P just with a div.
Give it a save.
And there it is.
Beautiful. So it always displays the current step.
And of course the message that we had before.
Because we passed that in right here,
into that is exactly what we had before as well.
And now of course, we could reuse this anywhere we wanted.
So let's say that here after the steps,
we wanted somewhere else in the app
also to have a step message.
Let's say step number one.
And then here, maybe the content is pass in content.
Let's do another paragraph with some emoji here.
Does not matter at all what we have here.
And so then here we have step one like this,
and we can do as many as we want.
So let's copy paste that.
Let's say for example, step two,
read children prop,
and then maybe some other emoji.
Give it a save.
And so now we have again created a reusable component here
that we can use anywhere in our application,
and give it any content that we want.
And it will always, as you see,
display this step here with the number that we gave it,
and then whatever content that we passed into it.
So into the component itself.
Let's come back here.
And here, I just thought that
maybe we could use our button again.
So, why not?
And then it makes even more sense to have these
different props because now we can
basically customize them in a different way.
So, let's say here we wanted a different background color
and a different text color.
These should be strings like this.
Ah, and we're missing the on click event handler.
And so here, let's just define an inline function.
And the emphasis is again, on defining a function.
So here we need to pass in a function, not call a function.
Let's just alert something here.
It doesn't really matter.
So let's say, "Learn How To,"
and then we can just use this here.
Just so that it's related to each of the steps.
So we opened the button, then we have the closing tag,
and now we can pass whatever we want in here.
And of course, this thing that we pass
can also just be regular text.
So give it a save.
And there is our button.
It still works.
So, we are successfully passing in the on click handler.
And then using it.
The styling looks a little bit off,
but I guess that's because I styled those one here.
Well, let's see, actually.
Just to make sure there's nothing wrong.
Now, in fact, these buttons get these styles
because they are a children of some element
with the buttons class.
Now right? But that doesn't really matter.
We could, of course, wrap this
in a div with the class of buttons that might work,
or maybe that will then mess up some other styling.
Well, that didn't really work.
But also because it's buttons. Yeah, nice.
That looks better actually.
And so with this, we can see that we were
really able to customize, once again, our button here.
Some parts with normal props like these three,
and then the content itself here with the children prop.
So, if we always just want to pass in a string
this could, of course, also be a normal prop.
But since sometimes we want some other content
like here with some actual JSX, like this span element here.
Well, then we should really take advantage
of the children prop.
And now to really drive this message home
so that you really understand how to work
with this important children prop.
Let's go back to our accordion component exercise
and use it there as well.